=== PAGE 1 ===
A Journal Devoted to the Instructional and Cultural Aspects of Physical Science
Votume 33, Numper 5 May 1965
Einstein’s Proposal of the Photon Concept-——a Translation of the
Annalen der Physik Paper of 1905*
A. B. Aronst anp M. B. PEepparpt
Amherst College, Amherst, Massachusetts
(Received 2 December 1964)
Of the trio of famous papers that Albert Einstein sent to the Annalen dey Physik in 1905
only the paper proposing the photon concept has been unavailable in English translation.
The American Journal of Physics is publishing the following translation in recognition of the
sixtieth anniversary of the appearance of the original work. Physics teachers may take particu-
lar interest in the following aspects: (1) Einstein’s keen awareness of the heuristic character
of his new conception. (2) His demonstration from thermodynamic and statistical considerations
that electromagnetic radiation might be conceived as consisting of finite numbers of discrete
corpuscles of energy hv. (3) His prediction of the linear relation between the stopping potential
of photoelectrons and the frequency of the incident light. This latter aspect of the photo-
electric effect was not included among Lenard’s early investigations. It remained for Millikan
and others to develop the elegant experimental techniques that confirmed Einstein's bold pre-
diction. Readers interested in pursuing the background in greater depth will find it rewarding
to refer to the critical analyses by Martin J. Klein in “Einstein’s First Paper on Quanta,” in
The Natural Philosopher (Blaisdeli Publishing Company, New York, 1963), Vol. I], and
“Einstein and the Wave-Particle Duality,” in The Natural Philosopher, Vol. (II, 1964. We are
grateful to Professor Klein for his criticism and advice regarding this translation and for his
generosity in making available to us an unpublished translation of his own.
CONCERNING AN Se MISS ON AND spatial functions to describe the electromagnetic
VIEW TOWARD THE EMISSI a :
state of a given volume, and a finite number of
TRANSFORMATION OF LIGHT given volume, and a finite number o
parameters cannot be regarded as sufficient for
By A, EINSTEIN the complete determination of such a state. Ac-
A PROFOUND formal distinction exists be- cording to the Maxwellian theory, energy is to
tween the theoretical concepts which physi- be considered a continuous spatial function in
cists have formed regarding gases and other the case of all purely electromagnetic phenomena
ponderable bodies and the Maxwellian theory of including light, while the energy of a ponderable
electromagnetic processes in so-called empty object should, according to the present concep-
space. While we consider the state of a body to tions of physicists, be represented as a sum
be completely determined by the positions and carried over the atoms and electrons, The energy
velocities of a very large, yet finite, number of of a ponderable body cannot be subdivided into
atoms and electrons, we make use of continuous arbitrarily many or arbitrarily small parts, while
* Ann. Physik 17, 132 (1905); Translation published the energy of a beam of light from a point source
with the permission of Annalen der Physik. i i i
+ Department of Physicn (according to the Maxwellian theory of light or,
t Department of German. more generally, according to any wave theory) is
367

=== PAGE 2 ===
368 A. B. ARONS AND M. B. PEPPARD
continuously spread over an ever increasing be a number of electrons which are bound to
volume. widely separated points by forces proportional

The wave theory of light, which operates with to their distances from these points. The bound
continuous spatial functions, has worked well in electrons are also to participate in conservative
the representation of purely optical phenomena interactions with the free molecules and electrons
and will probably never be replaced by another when the latter come very close. We call the
theory. It should be kept in mind, however, that bound electrons “oscillators”; they emit and
the optical observations refer to time averages absorb electromagnetic waves of definite periods.
rather than instantaneous values. In spite of the According to the present veiw regarding the
complete experimental confirmation of the theory _ origin of light, the radiation in the space we are
as applied to diffraction, reflection, refraction, considering (radiation which is found for the case
dispersion, etc., it is still conceivable that the of dynamic equilibrium in accordance with the
theory of light which operates with continuous Maxwellian theory) must be identical with the
spatial functions may lead to contradictions blackbody radiation—at least if oscillators of all
with experience when it is applied to the phe- the relevant frequencies are considered to be
nomena of emission and transformation of light. present.

It seems to me that the observations associated For the time being, we disregard the radiation
with blackbody radiation, fluorescence, the emitted and absorbed by the oscillators and
production of cathode rays by ultraviolet light, inquire into the condition of dynamical equilib-
and other related phenomena connected with the _ rium associated with the interaction (or collision)
emission or transformation of light are more of molecules and electrons. The kinetic theory of
readily understood if one assumes that the energy gases asserts that the average kinetic energy of
of light is discontinuously distributed in space. an oscillator electron must be equal to the aver-
In accordance with the assumption to be con- age kinetic energy of a translating gas molecule.
sidered here, the energy of a light ray spreading If we separate the motion of an oscillator electron
out from a point source is not continuously into three components at right angles to each
distributed over an increasing space but consists other, we find for the average energy E of one
of a finite number of energy quanta which are of these linear components the expression
localized at points in space, which move without - .
dividing, and which can only be produced and E=(R/N)T,
absorbed as complete units. . where R denotes the universal gas constant, V

In the following I wish to present the line of denotes the number of “real molecules” in a
thought and the facts which have led me to this gram equivalent, and T the absolute tempera-
point of view, hoping that this approach may be ture. The energy Z is equal to two-thirds the
useful to some investigators in their research. kinetic energy of a free monatomic gas particle

because of the equality between the time average
1 Oa Keon On BONO RNA TO values of the kinetic and potential energies of the
oscillator. If through any cause—in our case

We start first with the point of view taken in through radiation processes—it should occur that
the Maxwellian and the electron theories and the energy of an oscillator takes on a time-
consider the following case. In a space enclosed average value greater or less than E, then the
by completely reflecting walls, let there be a collisions with the free electrons and molecules
number of gas molecules and electrons which are would lead to a gain or loss of energy by the gas,
free to move and which exert conservative forces different on the average from zero. Therefore, in
on each other on close approach; i.e. they can the case we are considering, dynamic equilibrium
collide with each other like molecules in the is possible only when each oscillator has the
kinetic theory of gases.! Furthermore, let there average energy EF.

This assumption is equivalent to the supposition that known that, with the help of this assumption, Herr Drude
the average kinetic energies of gas molecules and electrons derived a theoretical expression for the ratio of thermal
are equal to each other at thermal equilibrium. It is well and electrical conductivities of metals.

=== PAGE 3 ===
EINSTEIN’S PROPOSAL OF THE PHOTON CONCEPT 369
We shall now proceed to present a similar argu- and in the limit we obtain
ment regarding the interaction between the
: ae : e R8r_ *
oscillators and the radiation present in the [ pdv=— arf Ydy=o.
cavity. Herr Planck has derived? the condition Jo NL J,
for the dynamical equilibrium in this case under
the supposition that the radiation can be con- 2. CONCERNING PLANCK’S DETERMINATION
sidered a completely random process.? He found OF THE FUNDAMENTAL CONSTANTS
= J i i 1
(B,) = (13/8x0) p», We wish to show in the following that Herr
Planck’s determination of the fundamental
where (#,) is the average energy (per degree  coustants is, to a certain extent, independent of
of freedom) of an oscillator with eigenfrequency his theory of blackbody radiation.
v, L the velocity of light, » the frequency, and Planck’s formula, which has proved adequate
adv the energy per unit volume of that portion uP to this point, gives for p,
of the radiation with frequency between » and ay?
vt+dp. Py =>
ous . Plt 1
If the radiation energy of frequency py is not
continually increasing or decreasing, the follow- a=6.10X 10-5,
ing relations must obtain: 8=4,866X 10-4.
(R/N)T =E = (H,) = (L8/827") py, . .
RIN (Srv2/L? For large values of T/v; i.e. for large wavelengths
p= (R/N) (8av?/L)T. and radiation densities, this equation takes the
These relations, found to be the conditions of form
dynamic equilibrium, not only fail to coincide p= (a/8) PT.
with experiment, but also state that in our model . . . Coo. . .
. we It is evident that this equation is identical with
there can be no talk of a definite energy distribu- . . .

. 5 the one obtained in Sec. 1 from the Maxwellian

tion between ether and matter. The wider the . . :
; and electron theories. By equating the coefficients
range of wavenumbers of the oscillators, the :
. of both formulas one obtains
greater will be the radiation energy of the space,
ne R/N) (87/L*) = (a/8

? M, Planck, Ann, Physik 1, 99 (1900). ¢ , (2/8)

3 This problem can be formulated in the following man- OF
ner. We expand the Z component of the electrical force (Z) ,
at an arbitrary point during the time interval between t=0 N= (8/a) (8rR/L*) =6.17 X 10%,
and ¢=T in a Fourier series in which 4,2 0 and 0<a< i
the time T is taken to be very large relative to all the - . .
periods of oscillation that are present: ie., an atom of hydrogen weighs 1/N grams

_ : = 1.62 X10-™ g. This is exactly the value found
Z= 2 Ay sin(2nrpcta). by Herr Planck, which in turn agrees with values
If one imagines making this expansion arbitrarily often at found by other methods.
a given point in space at randomly chosen instants of time, We therefore arrive at the conclusion: the
one will obtain various sets of values of A, and ay. There :
then exist for the frequency of occurrence of different sets Steater the energy density and the wavelength
ef values of A, and a, (statistical) probabilities dW of the of a radiation, the more useful do the theoretical
orm . .
. on les we h. employed t ;
dW = f(A1,A9- + -a1,09*++)dA,dA2:+ -donrdas:++. Principles we have ploye um out to be; for
vee ee . . . small wavelengths and small radiation densities,
Thefradiation is then as disordered as conceivable if en .
however, these principles fail us completely.

P(A Aa: + sanjeres ++) = Fi(A1) Fe(Az) +++ filor) fe(ar)+ +, . : .
pen a: : . In the following we shall consider the experi-
ive., if the probability of a particular value of A or a@ is : wae
independent of other values of A or a. The more closely mental facts concerning blackbody radiation
this condition is fulfilled (namely, that the individual pairs without invoking a model for the emission and
of values of A, and a are dependent upon the emission : oa . ~
and absorption processes of specific groups of oscillators) propagation of the radiation itself.
the more closely will radiation in the case being considered 9——————
approximate a perfectly random state. 4M. Planck, Ann, Physik 4, 561 (1901).

=== PAGE 4 ===
370 A. B. ARONS AND M. B. PEPPARD
3. CONCERNING THE ENTROPY OF RADIATION increases by dT
The following treatment is to be found in a = dg
famous work by Herr W. Wien and is introduced dS= i (=)nar,
here only for the sake of completeness. v=o \ Op
Suppose we have radiation occupying a volume or, since /dp is independent of »,
v. We assume that the observable properties of
the radiation are completely determined when dS = (0¢/dp)dE.
the radiation densit is gi f Il fre- . .
€ ra - fon Gens! y p(y) 1S given for al te Since dE is equal to the heat added and since
quencies.* Since radiations of different fre- . : .
. . . the process is reversible, the following statement
quencies are to be considered independent of each Iso applies
other when there is no transfer of heat or work, a PP
the entropy of the radiation can be repre- dS= (1/T)dE.
ted b : :
senreg oy By comparison one obtains
s-of o(p,v)dy, 0¢/dp =1/T.
0
This is the law of blackbody radiation. Therefore
where ¢ is a function of the variables p and ». one can derive the law of blackbody radiation
¢ can be reduced to a function of a single from the function ¢, and, inversely, one can
variable through formulation of the condition derive the function ¢ by integration, keeping in
that the entropy of the radiation is unaltered mind the fact that ¢ vanishes when p=0.
during adiabatic compression between reflecting
walls. We shall not enter into this problem, how- 4. ASYMPTOTIC FORM FOR THE ENTROPY
ever, but shall directly investigate the derivation OF MONOCHROMATIC RADIATION AT
of the function ¢ from the blackbody radiation LOW RADIATION DENSITY
law. From existing observations of the blackbody
In the case of blackbody radiation, p is such adiation, it is clear that the law originally
a function of » that the entropy is a maximum postulated by Herr W. Wien,
for a fixed value of energy; i.e.,
p=avrehlT,
6 i o(p,v)dv =0 is not exactly valid. It is, however, well confirmed
o experimentally for large values of v/T. We shall
providing base our analysis on this formula, keeping in mind
co that our results are only valid within certain
if pdv =0. limits.
0 This formula gives immediately
From this it follows that for every choice of 6p (1/T) = — (1/Bv) In (p/av*)
functi f : . . .
as a runction oY and then, by using the relation obtained in the
© 100 preceding section,
i (—=—1)inds—o,
o \dp p p
_ o(p,v) = ~~ in(=.) - 1,
where d is independent of v. In the case of black- By ay’
bod diation, therefore, 0¢/dp is independent cos
or i FAMIANOD, ENE €, 06/dp is indep Suppose that we have radiation of energy E,
The following equation applies when the tem- with frequency between ' and ae enclosed mn
perature of a unit volume of blackbody radiation VOU™ME® “ne entropy oF Enis Tadlation Is:
6 This assumption is an arbitrary one, One will naturally E E
cling to this simplest assumption as long as it is not S=v¢o(p,v)dy = ——| In| —— }—1 }.
controverted by experiment. By verdy

=== PAGE 5 ===
EINSTEIN’S PROPOSAL OF THE PHOTON CONCEPT 374
If we confine ourselves to investigating the de- and
pendence of the entropy on the volume occupied W=W,: Wa
by the radiation, and if we denote by So the The last equation says that the states of the two
entropy of the radiation at volume %, we obtain .
systems are independent of each other.
S—So= (E/8v) In(w/v0). From these equations it follows that

This equation shows that the entropy of a (Wi: We) = 61(W1) +42(W2),
monochromatic radiation of sufficiently low ;
density varies with the volume in the same and finally
manner as the entropy of an ideal gas or a dilute 6:(W1) =C In(W;) + const,
solution. In the following, this equation will be _
interpreted in accordance with the principle in- $2(Ws)=C In(Ws)-+const,
troduced into physics by Herr Boltzmann, $(W) =C In(W)-+const.
namely that the entropy of a system is a function The quantity C is therefore a universal constant;
of the probability its state. the kinetic theory of gases shows its value to be

5. MOLECULAR-THEORETIC INvEstIGATION oF &/N, where the constants R and N have been
THE DEPENDENCE OF THE ENTROPY defined above. If Sp denotes the entropy of a

OF GASES AND DILUTE SOLUTIONS system in some initial state and W denotes the

ON THE VOLUME relative probability of a state of entropy S, we

In the calculation of entropy by molecular- obtain in general
theoretic methods we frequently use the word S—So=(R/N) InW.
“probability” in a sense differing from that
employed in the calculus of probabilities. In First we treat the following special case. We
particular, “cases of equal probability” have consider a number (m) of movable points (e.g.,
frequently been hypothetically established when ™olecules) confined in a volume vp. Besides these
the theoretical models being utilized are definite Points, there can be in the space any number of
enough to permit a deduction rather than acon- ther movable points of any kind. We shall not
jecture. I will show in a separate paper that the ssume anything concerning the law in accord-
so-called “statistical probability” is fully ade- ance with which the points move in this space
quate for the treatment of thermal phenomena, except that with regard to this motion, no part
and I hope that by doing so I will eliminate a of the space (and no direction within it) can be
logical difficulty that obstructs the application distinguished from any other. Further, we take
of Boltzmann’s Principle. Here, however, only a the number of these movable points to be so
general formulation and application to very small that we can disregard interactions between
special cases will be given. them.

If it is reasonable to speak of the probability This system, which, for example, can be an
of the state of a system, and furthermore if every ideal gas or a dilute solution, possesses an entropy
entropy increase can be understood as a transi- So- Let us imagine transferring all » movable
tion to a state of higher probability, then the Points into a volume » (part of the volume »»)
entropy 5; of a system is a function of W1, the without anything else being changed in the
probability of its instantaneous state. If we have System. This state obviously possesses a different
two noninteracting systems S; and Sy, we can entropy (S), and we now wish to evaluate the
write entropy difference with the help of the Boltzmann

S,=o:(W)), Principle. ; ;
Se=$2(W2). We inquire: How large is the probability of
ze Pak. the latter state relative to the original one? Or:
If one considers these two systems as a single How large is the probability that at a randomly
system of entropy Sand probability W, it follows chosen instant of time all 2 movable points in
that the given volume vo will be found by chance in
S=Si+S,.=6(W) the volume v?

=== PAGE 6 ===
372 A. B. ARONS AND M. B. PEPPARD
For this probability, which is a ‘statistical We still wish to compare the average mag-
probability,”’ one obviously obtains: nitude of the energy quanta of the blackbody
w= a radiation with the average translational kinetic
= (v/v0)".
energy of a molecule at the same temperature.
By applying the Boltzmann Principle, one then The latter is 3(R/N)T, while, according to the
obtains Wien formula, one obtains for the average mag-
S—Sy=R(n/N) In(v/01). nitude of an energy quantum
2 N
It is noteworthy that in the derivation of this | aneoitay | | a5! Ty = 3 (RT/N).
equation, from which one can easily obtain the ° 0 Réy
law of Boyle and Gay-Lussac as well as the If the entropy of monochromatic radiation
analogous law of osmotic pressure thermody- depends on volume as though the radiation were
namically,® no assumption had to be made as to a discontinuous medium consisting of energy
a law of motion of the molecules. quanta of magnitude R6y/N, the next obvious
step is to investigate whether the laws of emission
6. TE VOLUME DEP ON DERON DE tee i ne and transformation of light are also of such a
TROPY OF MONOCHROMATIC RADIA- nature that they can be interpreted or explained
TION IN ACCORDANCE WITH by considering light to consist of such energy
BOLTZMANN'S PRINCIPLE quanta. We shail examine this question in the
In Sec. 4, we found the following expression following.
for the dependence of the entropy of monochro- 7. CONCERNING STOKES’S RULE
matic radiation on the volume According to the result just obtained, let us
S—So= (E/8v) In(v/v0). assume that, when monochromatic light is trans-
. oo. formed through photoluminescence into light of
If one writes this in the form a different frequency, both the incident and
S—So= (R/N) In[ (v/v9) 81? “E16? 7, emitted light consist of energy quanta of magni-
, tude RB»/N, where v denotes the relevant fre-
and if one compares this with the general formula quency. The transformation process is to be
for the Boltzmann principle interpreted in the following manner. Each inci-
S—So= (R/N) logW, dent energy quantum of frequency 7 is absorbed
and generates by itselfi—at least at sufficiently
one arrives at the following conclusion: low densities of incident energy quanta—a light
If monochromatic radiation of frequency » and quantum of frequency »2; it is possible that the
energy E is enclosed by reflecting walls in a absorption of the incident light quantum can give
volume vo, the probability that the total radiation tise to the simultaneous emission of light quanta
energy will be found in a volume v (part of the of frequencies v3, va, etc., as well as to energy of
volume %) at any randomly chosen instant is other kinds, e.g., heat. It does not matter what
W = (v/v9) (812-160), intermediate processes give rise to this final re-
sult. If the fluorescent substance is not a per-
From this we further conclude that: Mono- _ petual source of energy, the principle of conserva-
chromatic radiation of low density (within the tion of energy requires that the energy of an
range of validity of Wien’s radiation formula) emitted energy quantum cannot be greater than
behaves thermodynamically as though it con- that of the incident light quantum; it follows
sisted of a number of independent energy quanta that
of magnitude R6v/N. RBv2/N < RBv1/N
6 If Eis the energy of the system, one obtains: or
—d(E—TS) =pdo = TdS =RT(n/N)(do/2); vain.
therefore pu=R(n/NYT. This is the well-known Stokes’s Rule.

=== PAGE 7 ===
EINSTEIN’S PROPOSAL OF THE PHOTON CONCEPT 373
It should be strongly emphasized that accord- quanta penetrate into the surface layer of the
ing to our conception the quantity of light body, and their energy is transformed, at least in
emitted under conditions of low illumination part, into kinetic energy of electrons. The sim-
(other conditions remaining constant) must be  plest way to imagine this is that a light quantum
proportional to the strength of the incident light, delivers its entire energy to a single electron; we
since each incident energy quantum willcausean shall assume that this is what happens. The
elementary process of the postulated kind, inde- possibility should not be excluded, however, that
pendently of the action of other incident energy electrons might receive their energy only in part
quanta. In particular, there will be no lower limit from the light quantum.
for the intensity of incident light necessary to An electron to which kinetic energy has been
excite the fluorescent effect. imparted in the interior of the body will have
According to the conception set forth above, lost some of this energy by the time it reaches
deviations from Stokes’s Rule are conceivable in the surface. Furthermore, we shall assume that
the following cases: in leaving the body each electron must perform
1. when the number of simultaneously inter- an amount of work P characteristic of the sub-
acting energy quanta per unit volume is so large sta nce. The ejected electrons leaving the body
that an energy quantum of emitted light can with the largest normal velocity will be those that
receive its energy from several incident energy “°Te directly at the surface. The kinetic energy
quanta; of such electrons is given by
2. when the incident (or emitted) light is not R6v/N—-P.
of such a composition that it corresponds to
blackbody radiation within the range of validity If the body is charged to a positive potential
of Wein’s Law, that is to say, for example, 2 and is surrounded by conductors at zero
when the incident light is produced by a body of potential, and if IT is just large enough to prevent
such high temperature that for the wavelengths loss of electricity by the body, it follows that:
under consideration Wien’s Law is no longer Te=R6v/N—P
valid.
The last-mentioned possibility commands es- where ¢ denotes the electronic charge, or
pecial interest. According to the conception we ME=R6v—P’
have outlined, the possibility is not excluded that
a “non-Wien radiation” of very low density can where E is the charge of a gram equivalent of a
exhibit an energy behavior different from that of monovalent ion and P’ is the potential of this
a blackbody radiation within the range of quantity of negative electricity relative to the
validity of Wien’s Law. body.’
If one takes E=9.6X10*, then II-1078 is the
8. CONCERNING THE EMISSION OF CATHODE potential in volts which the body assumes when
RAYS THROUGH THE ILLUMINATION irradiated in a vacuum.
OF SOLID BODIES In order to see whether the derived relation
The usual conception, that the energy of light yields an order of magnitude consistent with
is continuously distributed over the space experience, we take P’=0, »=1.0310" (corre-
through which it propagates, encounters very sponding to the limit of the solar spectrum
serious difficulties when one attempts to explain toward the ultraviolet) and 8 =4.866 X10-". We
the photoelectric phenomena, as has been pointed obtain Il-10’=4.3 volts, a result agreeing in
out in Herr Lenard’s pioneering paper.” order magnitude with those of Herr Lenard.®
. According to the concept that the incident 8 If one assumes that the individual electron is detached
light consists of energy quanta of magnitude from a neutral molecule by light with the performance of a
RB»/N, however, one can conceive of the ejection certain amount of work, nothing in the relation derived
. . . above need be changed; one can simply consider P’ as the
of electrons by light in the following way. Energy — sum of two terms.
—_—_— °P. Lenard, Ann. Physik 8, pp. 165, 184, and Table I,
7P, Lenard, Ann. Physik 8, 169, 170 (1902). Fig. 2 (1902).

=== PAGE 8 ===
374 A. B. ARONS AND M. B. PEPPARD

If the derived formula is correct, then I, when 9, CONCERNING THE IONIZATION OF GASES
represented in Cartesian coordinates as a func- BY ULTRAVIOLET LIGHT
tion of the frequency of the incident light, must We shall have to assume that, in the ionization
be a straight line whose slope is independent of of a gas by ultraviolet light, an individual light
the nature of the emitting substance. energy quantum is used for the ionization of an

As far as I can see, there is no contradiction individual gas molecule. From this it follows
between these conceptions and the properties of immediately that the work of ionization (i.e., the
the photoelectric effect observed by Herr Lenard. work theoretically needed for ionization) of a
If each energy quantum of the incident light, molecule cannot be greater than the energy of
independently of everything else, delivers its an absorbed light quantum capable of producing
energy to electrons, then the velocity distribution this effect. If one denotes by J the (theoretical)
of the ejected electrons will be independent of the work of ionization per gram equivalent, then it
intensity of the incident light; on the other hand follows that:
the number of electrons leaving the body will, Rev>J.
if other conditions are kept constant, be pro- .
portional to the intensity of the incident light. According to Lenard’s measurements, however,

Remarks similar to those made concerning the largest effective wavelength for air is approxi-
hypothetical deviations from Stokes’s Rule can mately 1.9X10~* cm; therefore:
can be made with regard to hypothetical bound- R6y =6.4X10" erg > J.
aries of validity of the law set forth above.

In the foregoing it has been assumed that the An upper limit for the work of ionization can
energy of at least some of the quanta of the also be obtained from the ionization potentials of
incident light is delivered completely to in- rarefied gases. According to J. Stark! the smallest
dividual electrons. If one does not make this observed ionization potentials for air (at plati-
obvious assumption, one obtains, in place of the "um anodes) is about 10 V.* One therefore ob-
last equation: tains 9.610" as an upper limit for J, which is

E+ P’ < RBy. nearly equal to the value found above.
There is another consequence the experimental

For fluorescence induced by cathode rays, testing of which seems to me to be of great
which is the inverse process to the one discussed importance. If every absorbed light energy
above, one obtains by analagous considerations: quantum ionizes a molecule, the following rela-

tion must obtain between the quantity of ab-

NE+P'2 R6v. sorbed light Z and the number of gram molecules
In the case of the substances investigated by of ionized gas j:
Herr Lenard, PE" is always significantly greater j=L/R6p.
than Rv, since the potential difference, which Lo. . . .
the cathode rays must traverse in order to If our conception is correct, this relationship
produce visible light, amounts in some cases to must be valid for all gases which (at the relevant
hundreds and in others to thousands of volts." It frequency) show no appreciable absorption with-
is therefore to be assumed that the kinetic energy out 1onization.
of an electron goes into the production of many Bern, 17 March 1905
light energy quanta. Received 18 March 1905.

Pp. Lenard, Ref. 9, p. 150 and p. 166-168. ® J. Stark, Die Elektrizitat in Gasen (Leipzig, 1902), p. 57.

10a Should be ILE (translator’s note). %3In the interior of gases the ionization potential for

uP, Lenard, Ann. Physik 12, 469 (1903). negative ions is, however, five times greater.
