Quantum  Theory  at  the  Crossroads 

Reconsidering  the  1927  Solvay  Conference 

Guido  Bacciagaluppi 
Antony  Valentini 


©  Cambridge  University  Press 
ISBN:  9780521814218 


To  the  memory  of  James  T.  Cushing 


Contents 


Preface  vaae Ivii 

Abbreviations  xiii 

Typographic  conventions  xiv 

Note  on  the  bibliography  Ixiv 

Permissions  and  copyright  notices  |xv 

Part  I 

Perspectives  on  the  1927  Solvay  conference  [l| 

1  Historical  introduction  ^ 

1.1  Ernest  Solvay  and  the  Institute  of  Physics  3 

1.2  War  and  international  relations  [6| 

1.3  Scientific  planning  and  background  1C 

1.4  Further  details  of  planning  3 

1.5  The  Solvay  meeting 

1.6  The  editing  of  the  proceedings 

1.7  Conclusion 
Archival  notes 

2  De  Broglie's  pilot-wave  theory 

2.1  Background 

2.2  A  new  approach  to  particle  dynamics:  1923-24 

2.2.1  First  papers  on  pilot-wave  theory  (1923) 

2.2.2  Thesis  (1924) 

2.2.3  Optical  interference  fringes:  November  1924 

2.3  Towards  a  complete  pilot-wave  dynamics:  1925-27 

2.3.1  'Structure':  Journal  de  Physique,  May  1927 

2.3.2  Significance  of  de  Broglie's  'Structure'  paper 

2.4  1927  Solvay  report:  the  new  dynamics  of  quanta  3 


ii 


Contents 


2.5  Significance  of  de  Broglie's  work  from  1923  to  1927 
Archival  notes 

3  From  matrix  mechanics  to  quantum  mechanics 

3.1  Summary  of  Born  and  Heisenberg's  report 

3.2  Writing  of  the  report 

3.3  Formalism 

3.3.1  Before  matrix  mechanics 

3.3.2  Matrix  mechanics 

3.3.3  Formal  extensions  of  matrix  mechanics 

3.4  Interpretation 

3.4.1  Matrix  mechanics,  Born  and  Wiener 

3.4.2  Born  and  Jordan  on  guiding  fields,  Bohr  on 
collisions 

3.4.3  Born's  collision  papers 

3.4.4  Heisenberg  on  energy  fluctuations 

3.4.5  Transformation  theory 

3.4.6  Development  of  the  'statistical  view'  in  the 
report 

3.4.7  Justification  and  overall  conclusions 
Archival  notes 

4  Schrodinger's  wave  mechanics 

4.1  Planning  of  Schrodinger's  report 

4.2  Summary  of  the  report 

4.3  Particles  as  wave  packets 

4.4  The  problem  of  radiation 

4.5  Schrodinger  and  de  Broglie 

4.6  The  conflict  with  matrix  mechanics 

4.6.1  Early  days 

4.6.2  From  Munich  to  Copenhagen 

4.6.3  Continuity  and  discontinuity 
Archival  notes 

Part  II 

Quantum  foundations  and  the  1927  Solvay  conference 

5  Quantum  theory  and  the  measurement  problem 

5.1  What  is  quantum  theory? 

5.2  The  measurement  problem  today 
5.2.1     A  fundamental  ambiguity 


iv 


Contents 


5.2.2  Measurement  as  a  physical  process:  quantum 
theory  'without  observers' 

5.2.3  Quantum  cosmology 

5.2.4  The  measurement  problem  in  'statistical' 


157 


interpretations  of  tp  1 164 

Interference,  superposition,  and  wave  packet  collapse  1681 

6.1  Probability  and  interference  1681 

6.1.1  Interference  in  de  Broglie's  pilot- wave  theory  1691 

6.1.2  Interference  in  the  'quantum  mechanics'  of 
Born  and  Heisenberg  Il72 

6.2  Macroscopic  superposition:  Born's  discussion  of  the 
cloud  chamber  Il77 
6.2.1     Quantum  mechanics  without  wave  packet 

collapse?  [l78 

6.3  Dirac  and  Heisenberg:  interference,  state  reduction, 

and  delayed  choice  1 182 

6.4  Further  remarks  on  Born  and  Heisenberg's  quantum 
mechanics  1 19C 

Locality  and  incompleteness  1941 

7.1  Einstein's  1927  argument  for  incompleteness  194j 

7.2  A  precursor:  Einstein  at  Salzburg  in  1909  1981 

7.3  More  on  nonlocality  and  relativity  2021 

Time,  determinism,  and  the  spacetime  framework 

8.1  Time  in  quantum  theory 

8.2  Determinism  and  probability 

8.3  Visualisability  and  the  spacetime  framework 


Guiding  fields  in  3-space  1218 

9.1      Einstein's  early  attempts  to  formulate  a  dynamical 


theory  of  light  quanta  l21g 


9.2     The  failure  of  energy-momentum  conservation  1221 


10      Scattering  and  measurement  in  de  Broglie's  pilot-wave  

theory  22j 

10.1  Scattering  in  pilot- wave  theory  1228 

10.2  Elastic  and  inelastic  scattering:  Born  and  Brillouin, 
Pauli  and  de  Broglie 

10.3  Quantum  measurement  in  pilot-wave  theory 

10.4  Recoil  of  a  single  photon:  Kramers  and  de  Broglie  124' 


Contents 

11  Pilot-wave  theory  in  retrospect 

11.1  Historical  misconceptions 

11.2  Why  was  de  Broglie's  theory  rejected? 

11.3  Einstein's  alternative  pilot- wave  theory  (May  1927) 

11.4  Objections:  in  1927  and  today 

12  Beyond  the  Bohr-Einstein  debate 

12.1  The  standard  historical  account 

12.2  Towards  a  historical  revision 


Part  III 

The  proceedings  of  the  1927  Solvay  conference  27 

H.  A.  Lorentz  f 
Fifth  physics  conference 

The  intensity  of  X-ray  reflection  ( W.  L.  Bragg) 

The  classical  treatment  of  X-ray  diffraction  phenomena 
History  of  the  use  of  quantitative  methods 
Results  of  quantitative  analysis 
Interpretation  of  measurements  of  F 
Examples  of  analysis 
The  mechanism  of  X-ray  scattering 
The  analysis  of  atomic  structure  by  X-ray  intensity 

measurements 
The  refraction  of  X-rays 

References  [31 
Discussion  of  Mr  Bragg's  report  21 
Notes  to  the  translation  132 

Disagreements  between  experiment  and  the  electromagnetic 
theory  of  radiation  (A.  H.  Compton) 

Introduction 

The  problem  of  the  ether 
The  emission  of  radiation 
The  photoelectric  effect 
Phenomena  associated  with  the  scattering  of  X-rays  24J 
Interactions  between  radiation  and  single  electrons  342 
Reliability  of  experimental  evidence  l35z 
Summary 

Discussion  of  Mr  Compton's  report 
Notes  to  the  translation  371 


vi 


Contents 


The  new  dynamics  of  quanta  (L.  de  Broglie)  373 

I.  —  Principal  points  of  view  373 

II.  —  Probable  meaning  of  the  continuous  waves  \&  1381 

III.  —  Experiments  showing  preliminary  direct  evidence  for 

the  new  Dynamics  of  the  electron  388 

Bibliography  396 

Discussion  of  Mr  de  Broglie's  report  398 

Notes  to  the  translation  1406 

Quantum  mechanics  (M.  Born  and  W.  Heisenberg)  407 

Introduction  407 

I.  —  The  mathematical  methods  of  quantum  mechanics  408 

II.  —  Physical  interpretation  1418 

III.  —  Formulation  of  the  principles  and  delimitation  of 

their  scope  428 

IV.  —  Applications  of  quantum  mechanics  432 
Conclusion  435 
Bibliography  437 
Discussion  of  Messrs  Born  and  Heisenberg's  report  441 
Notes  to  the  translation  1444 

Wave  mechanics  (E.  Schrddinger)  447 

Introduction  447 

I.  —  Multi-dimensional  theory  448 

II.  —  Four-dimensional  theory  456 

III.  —  The  many-electron  problem  461 
Discussion  of  Mr  Schrodinger's  report  468 
Notes  to  the  translation  1474 

General  discussion  of  the  new  ideas  presented  476 

Causality,  determinism,  probability  476 

Photons  497 

Photons  and  electrons  50C 

Notes  to  the  translation  52C 

Bibliography  1523 


Preface 


And  they  said  one  to  another:  Go  to,  let  us  build  us  a 
tower,  whose  top  may  reach  unto  heaven;  and  let  us  make 
us  a  name.  And  the  Lord  said:  Go  to,  let  us  go  down,  and 
there  confound  their  language,  that  they  may  not 
understand  one  another's  speech. 

Genesis  11:  3-7 

Anyone  who  has  taken  part  in  a  debate  on  the  interpretation  of  quantum 
theory  will  recognise  how  fitting  is  the  above  quotation  from  the  book  of 
Genesis,  according  to  which  the  builders  of  the  Tower  of  Babel  found  that 
they  could  no  longer  understand  one  another's  speech.  For  when  it  comes 
to  the  interpretation  of  quantum  theory,  even  the  most  clear-thinking 
and  capable  physicists  are  often  unable  to  understand  each  other. 

This  state  of  affairs  dates  back  to  the  genesis  of  quantum  theory 
itself.  In  October  1927,  during  the  'general  discussion'  that  took  place 
in  Brussels  at  the  end  of  the  fifth  Solvay  conference,  Paul  Ehrenfest 
wrote  the  above  lines  on  the  blackboard.  As  Langevin  later  remarked, 
the  Solvay  meeting  in  1927  was  the  conference  where  'the  confusion  of 
ideas  reached  its  peak'. 

Ehrenfest's  perceptive  gesture  captured  the  essence  of  a  situation  that 
has  persisted  for  three-quarters  of  a  century.  According  to  widespread 
historical  folklore,  the  deep  differences  of  opinion  among  the  leading 
physicists  of  the  day  led  to  intense  debates,  which  were  satisfactorily 
resolved  by  Bohr  and  Heisenberg  around  the  time  of  the  1927  Solvay 
meeting.  But  in  fact,  at  the  end  of  1927,  a  significant  number  of  the 
main  participants  (in  particular  de  Broglie,  Einstein,  and  Schrodinger) 
remained  unconvinced,  and  the  deep  differences  of  opinion  were  never 
really  resolved. 

The  interpretation  of  quantum  theory  seems  as  highly  controversial 


vii 


viii 


Preface 


today  as  it  was  in  1927.  There  has  also  been  criticism  —  on  the  part 
of  historians  as  well  as  physicists  —  of  the  tactics  used  by  Bohr  and 
others  to  propagate  their  views  in  the  late  1920s,  and  a  realisation  that 
alternative  ideas  may  have  been  dismissed  or  unfairly  disparaged.  For 
many  physicists,  a  sense  of  unease  lingers  over  the  whole  subject.  Might 
it  be  that  things  are  not  as  clear-cut  as  Bohr  and  Heisenberg  would  have 
us  believe?  Might  it  be  that  their  opponents  had  something  important 
to  say  after  all?  Because  today  there  is  no  longer  an  established  inter- 
pretation of  quantum  mechanics,  we  feel  it  is  important  to  go  back  to 
the  sources  and  re-evaluate  them. 

In  this  spirit,  we  offer  the  reader  a  return  to  a  time  just  before  the 
Copenhagen  interpretation  was  widely  accepted,  when  the  best  physi- 
cists of  the  day  gathered  to  discuss  a  range  of  views,  concerning  many  to- 
pics of  interest  today  (measurement,  determinism,  nonlocality,  subject- 
ivity, interference,  and  so  on),  and  when  three  distinct  theories  —  de 
Broglie's  pilot-wave  theory,  Born  and  Heisenberg's  quantum  mechanics, 
and  Schrodinger's  wave  mechanics  —  were  presented  and  discussed  on 
an  equal  footing. 

Since  the  1930s,  and  especially  since  the  Second  World  War,  it  has 
been  common  to  dismiss  questions  about  the  interpretation  of  quantum 
theory  as  'metaphysical'  or  'just  philosophical'.  It  will  be  clear  from 
the  lively  and  wide-ranging  discussions  of  1927  that  at  that  time,  for 
the  most  distinguished  physicists  of  the  day,  the  issues  were  decidedly 
physical:  Is  the  electron  a  point  particle  with  a  continuous  trajectory 
(de  Broglie),  or  a  wave  packet  (Schrodinger),  or  neither  (Born  and 
Heisenberg)?  Do  quantum  outcomes  occur  when  nature  makes  a  choice 
(Dirac),  or  when  an  observer  decides  to  record  them  (Heisenberg)?  Is 
the  nonlocality  of  quantum  theory  compatible  with  relativity  (Einstein)? 
Can  a  theory  with  trajectories  account  for  the  recoil  of  a  single  photon 
on  a  mirror  (Kramers,  de  Broglie)?  Is  indeterminism  a  fundamental 
limitation,  or  merely  the  outcome  of  coarse-graining  over  something 
deeper  and  deterministic  (Lorentz)? 

After  1927,  the  Copenhagen  interpretation  became  firmly  established. 
Rival  views  were  marginalised,  in  particular  those  represented  by  de 
Broglie,  Schrodinger  and  Einstein,  even  though  these  scientists  were  re- 
sponsible for  many  of  the  major  developments  in  quantum  physics  itself. 
(This  marginalisation  is  apparent  in  most  historical  accounts  written 
throughout  the  twentieth  century.)  From  the  very  beginning,  however, 


Preface 


ix 


there  were  some  notes  of  caution:  for  example,  when  Bohr's  landmark 
paper  of  1928  (the  English  version  of  his  famous  Como  lecture)  was 
published  in  Nature,  an  editorial  preface  expressed  dissatisfaction  with 
the  'somewhat  vague  statistical  description'  and  ended  with  the  hope 
that  this  would  not  be  the  'last  word  on  the  subject'.  And  there  were  a 
few  outstanding  alarm  bells,  in  particular  the  famous  paper  by  Einstein, 
Podolsky  and  Rosen  in  1935,  and  the  important  papers  by  Schrodinger 
(in  the  same  year)  on  the  cat  paradox  and  on  entanglement.  But  on 
the  whole,  the  questioning  ceased  in  all  but  a  few  corners.  A  general 
opinion  arose  that  the  questions  had  been  essentially  settled,  and  that  a 
satisfactory  point  of  view  had  been  arrived  at,  principally  through  the 
work  of  Bohr  and  Heisenberg.  For  subsequent  generations  of  physicists, 
'shut  up  and  calculate'  emerged  as  the  working  rule  among  the  vast 
majority. 

Despite  this  atmosphere,  the  questioning  never  completely  died  out, 
and  some  very  significant  work  was  published,  for  example  by  Bohm  in 
1952,  Everett  in  1957,  and  Bell  in  1964  and  1966.  But  attitudes  changed 
very  slowly.  Younger  physicists  were  strongly  discouraged  from  pursuing 
such  questions.  Those  who  persisted  generally  had  difficult  careers,  and 
much  of  the  careful  thinking  about  quantum  foundations  was  relegated 
to  departments  of  philosophy. 

Nevertheless,  the  closing  decade  of  the  twentieth  century  saw  a  resur- 
gence of  interest  in  the  foundations  of  quantum  theory.  At  the  time  of 
writing,  a  range  of  alternatives  (such  as  hidden  variables,  many  worlds, 
collapse  models,  among  others)  are  being  actively  pursued,  and  the 
Copenhagen  interpretation  can  no  longer  claim  to  be  the  dominant  or 
'orthodox'  interpretation. 

The  modern  reader  familiar  with  current  debates  and  positions  in 
quantum  foundations  will  recognise  many  of  the  standard  points  of  view 
in  the  discussions  reproduced  here,  though  expressed  with  a  remarkable 
concision  and  clarity.  This  provides  a  welcome  contrast  with  the  gene- 
rally poor  level  of  debate  today:  as  the  distinguished  cosmologist  Dennis 
Sciama  was  fond  of  pointing  out,  when  it  comes  to  the  interpretation 
of  quantum  theory  'the  standard  of  argument  suddenly  drops  to  zero'. 
We  hope  that  the  publication  of  this  book  will  contribute  to  a  revival  of 
sharp  and  informed  debate  about  the  meaning  of  quantum  theory. 

* 

Remarkably,  the  proceedings  of  the  fifth  Solvay  conference  have  not 
received  the  attention  they  deserve,  neither  from  physicists  nor  from 


X 


Preface 


historians,  and  the  literature  contains  numerous  major  misunderstand- 
ings about  what  took  place  there. 

The  fifth  Solvay  conference  is  usually  remembered  for  the  clash  that 
took  place  between  Einstein  and  Bohr  over  the  uncertainty  relations.  It  is 
remarkable,  then,  to  find  that  not  a  word  of  these  discussions  appears  in 
the  published  proceedings.  It  is  known  that  Einstein  and  Bohr  engaged 
in  vigorous  informal  discussions,  but  in  the  formal  debates  recorded 
in  the  proceedings  they  were  relatively  silent.  Bohr  did  contribute  to 
the  general  discussion,  but  this  material  was  not  published.  Instead,  at 
Bohr's  request,  it  was  replaced  by  a  translation  of  the  German  version 
of  his  Como  lecture,  which  appeared  in  Naturwissenschaften  in  1928. 
(We  do  not  reproduce  this  well-known  paper  here.)  The  appending  of 
this  translation  to  the  published  proceedings  may  be  the  cause  of  the 
common  misunderstanding  that  Bohr  gave  a  report  at  the  conference: 
in  fact,  he  did  not. 

Born  and  Heisenberg  present  a  number  of  unfamiliar  viewpoints  con- 
cerning, among  other  things,  the  nature  of  the  wave  function  and  the  role 
of  time  and  of  probability  in  quantum  theory.  Particularly  surprising  is 
the  seeming  absence  of  a  collapse  postulate  in  their  formulation,  and  the 
apparently  phenomenological  status  of  the  time-dependent  Schrodinger 
equation.  Born  and  Heisenberg's  'quantum  mechanics'  seems  remarkably 
different  from  quantum  mechanics  (in  the  Dirac-von  Neumann  formula- 
tion) as  we  know  it  today. 

De  Broglie's  pilot-wave  theory  was  the  subject  of  extensive  and  varied 
discussions.  This  is  rather  startling  in  view  of  the  claim  —  in  Max 
Jammer's  classic  historical  study  The  Philosophy  of  Quantum  Mechanics 
—  that  de  Broglie's  theory  'was  hardly  discussed  at  all'  and  that  'the  only 
serious  reaction  came  from  Pauli'  (Jammer  1974,  pp.  110-11).  Jammer's 
view  is  typical  even  today.  But  in  the  published  proceedings,  at  the  end  of 
de  Broglie's  report  there  are  9  pages  of  discussion  devoted  to  de  Broglie's 
theory,  and  of  the  42  pages  of  general  discussion,  15  contain  discussion  of 
de  Broglie's  theory,  with  serious  reactions  and  comments  coming  not  only 
from  Pauli  but  also  from  Born,  Brillouin,  Einstein,  Kramers,  Lorentz, 
Schrodinger  and  others.  Even  the  well-known  exchange  between  Pauli 
and  de  Broglie  has  been  widely  misunderstood. 

Finally,  another  surprise  is  that  in  his  report  de  Broglie  proposed  the 
many-body  pilot- wave  dynamics  for  a  system  of  particles,  with  the  total 
configuration  guided  by  a  wave  in  configuration  space,  and  not  just  (as  is 
generally  believed)  the  one-body  theory  in  3-space.  De  Broglie's  theory 
is  essentially  the  same  as  that  developed  by  Bohm  in  1952,  the  only 


Preface 


xi 


difference  being  that  de  Broglie's  dynamics  (like  the  form  of  pilot-wave 
theory  popularised  by  Bell)  is  formulated  in  terms  of  velocity  rather  than 
acceleration. 

This  work  is  a  translation  of  and  commentary  on  the  proceedings  of 
the  fifth  Solvay  conference  of  1927,  which  were  published  in  French  in 
1928  under  the  title  Electrons  et  Photons. 

We  have  not  attempted  to  give  an  exhaustive  historical  analysis  of 
the  fifth  Solvay  conference.  Rather,  our  main  aims  have  been  to  present 
the  material  in  a  manner  accessible  to  the  general  physicist,  and  to 
situate  the  proceedings  in  the  context  of  current  research  in  quantum 
foundations.  We  hope  that  the  book  will  contribute  to  stimulating  and 
reviving  serious  debate  about  quantum  foundations  in  the  wider  physics 
community,  and  that  making  the  proceedings  available  in  English  will 
encourage  historians  and  philosophers  to  reconsider  their  significance. 

Part  I  begins  with  a  historical  introduction  and  provides  essays  on 
the  three  main  theories  presented  at  the  conference  (pilot-wave  theory, 
quantum  mechanics,  wave  mechanics).  The  lectures  and  discussions  that 
took  place  at  the  fifth  Solvay  conference  contain  an  extensive  range 
of  material  that  is  relevant  to  current  research  in  the  foundations  of 
quantum  theory.  In  Part  II,  after  a  brief  review  of  the  status  of  quantum 
foundations  today,  we  summarise  what  seem  to  us  to  be  the  highlights 
of  the  conference,  from  the  point  of  view  of  current  debates  about  the 
meaning  of  quantum  theory.  Part  III  of  the  book  consists  of  translations 
of  the  reports,  of  the  discussions  following  them,  and  of  the  general 
discussion.  Wherever  possible,  the  original  (in  particular  English  or  Ger- 
man) texts  have  been  used.  We  have  tacitly  corrected  minor  mistakes  in 
punctuation  and  spelling,  and  we  have  uniformised  the  style  of  equations, 
references  and  footnotes.  (Unless  otherwise  specified,  all  translations  of 
quotations  are  ours.) 

Part  I  (except  for  chapter  [2])  and  the  reports  by  Compton,  by  Born 
and  Heisenberg  and  by  Schrodinger,  are  principally  the  work  of  Guido 
Bacciagaluppi.  Chapter  [21  Part  II,  and  the  reports  by  Bragg  and  by  de 
Broglie  and  the  general  discussion  in  Part  III,  are  principally  the  work 
of  Antony  Valentini. 

Chapters  El  [TO]  and  [TT]  are  based  on  a  seminar,  'The  early  history  of 
Louis  de  Broglie's  pilot-wave  dynamics',  given  by  Antony  Valentini  at 
the  University  of  Notre  Dame  in  September  1997,  at  a  conference  in 
honour  of  the  sixtieth  birthday  of  the  late  James  T.  Cushing. 


xii 


Preface 


* 

To  James  T.  Cushing,  physicist,  philosopher,  historian  and  gentleman, 
we  both  owe  a  special  and  heartfelt  thanks.  It  was  he  who  brought  us  to- 
gether on  this  project,  and  to  him  we  are  indebted  for  his  encouragement 
and,  above  all,  his  example.  This  book  is  dedicated  to  his  memory. 

Guido  Bacciagaluppi  wishes  to  express  his  thanks  to  the  Humboldt 
Foundation,  which  supported  the  bulk  of  his  work  in  the  form  of  an 
Alexander  von  Humboldt  Forschungsstipendium,  and  to  his  hosts  in 
Germany,  Carsten  Held  and  the  Philosophisches  Seminar  I,  University 
of  Freiburg,  and  Harald  Atmanspacher  and  the  Institut  fur  Grenzgebiete 
der  Psychologie  und  Psychohygiene,  Freiburg,  as  well  as  to  Jacques 
Dubucs  and  the  Institut  d'Histoire  et  de  Philosophie  des  Sciences  et  des 
Techniques  (CNRS,  Paris  1,  ENS)  for  support  during  the  final  phase.  He 
also  wishes  to  thank  Didier  Devriese  of  the  Universite  Libre  de  Bruxelles, 
who  is  in  charge  of  the  archives  of  the  Instituts  Internationaux  de  Physi- 
que et  de  Chimie  Solvay,  Universite  Libre  de  Bruxelles,  for  his  kindness 
and  availability,  and  Brigitte  Parakenings  (formerly  Uhlemann)  and  her 
staff  at  the  Philosophisches  Archiv  of  the  University  of  Konstanz,  for 
the  continuous  assistance  with  the  Archive  for  the  History  of  Quantum 
Physics.  Finally,  he  should  wish  to  thank  Jeff  Barrett  for  suggesting 
this  project  to  him  in  Utrecht  one  day  back  in  1996,  as  well  as  Mark  van 
Atten,  Jennifer  Bailey,  Olivier  Darrigol,  Felicity  Pors,  Gregor  Schiemann 
and  many  others  for  discussions,  suggestions,  correspondence,  references 
and  other  help. 

Antony  Valentini  began  studying  these  fascinating  proceedings  while 
holding  a  postdoctoral  position  at  the  University  of  Rome  'La  Sapienza' 
(1994-96),  and  is  grateful  to  Marcello  Cini,  Bruno  Bertotti  and  Dennis 
Sciama  for  their  support  and  encouragement  during  that  period.  For 
support  in  recent  years,  he  is  grateful  to  Perimeter  Institute,  and  wishes 
to  express  a  special  thanks  to  Howard  Burton,  Lucien  Hardy  and  Lee 
Smolin. 

We  are  both  grateful  to  Tamsin  van  Essen  at  Cambridge  University 
Press  for  her  support  and  encouragement  during  most  of  the  gestation 
of  this  book,  and  to  Augustus  College  for  support  during  the  final  stages 
of  this  work. 


Guido  Bacciagaluppi 
Antony  Valentini 


Lake  Maggiore,  August  2006 


Abbreviations 


xiii 


Abbreviations 

AEA:  Albert  Einstein  Archives,  Jewish  National  and  University  Library, 

Hebrew  University  of  Jerusalem. 

AHQP:  Archive  for  the  History  of  Quantum  Physics. 

AHQP-BSC:  Bohr  Scientific  Correspondence,  microfilmed  from  the  Niels 

Bohr  Arkiv,  Copenhagen. 

AHQP-BMSS:  Bohr  Scientific  Manuscripts,  microfilmed  from  the  Niels 
Bohr  Arkiv,  Copenhagen. 

AHQP-EHR:  Ehrenfest  collection,  microfilmed  from  the  Rijksmuseum 
voor  de  Geschiedenis  van  de  Natuurwetenschappen  en  van  de  Genees- 
kunde  'Museum  Boerhaave',  Leiden. 

AHQP-LTZ:  Lorentz  collection,  microfilmed  from  the  Algemeen  Rijk- 
sarchief,  Den  Haag. 

AHQP-RDN:  Richardson  Collection,  microfilmed  from  the  Harry  Ran- 
som Humanities  Research  Center,  University  of  Texas  at  Austin. 
AHQP-OHI:  Oral  history  interview  transcripts. 

IIPCS:  Archives  of  the  Instituts  Internationaux  de  Physique  et  de  Chimie 

Solvay,  Universite  Libre  de  Bruxelles. 

Ann.  d.  Phys.  or  Ann.  der  Phys.:  Annalen  der  Physik. 

Bayr.  Akad.  d.  Wiss.  Math.  phys.  Kl.\  Sitzungsberichte  der  Mathema- 

tisch-Physikalischen  Klasse  der  Koniglich-Bayerischen  Akademie  der  Wis- 

senschaften  (Miinchen). 

Berl.  Ber.:  Sitzungsberichte  der  Preussischen  Akademie  der  Wissen- 
schaften  (Berlin). 

Acad.  Roy.  Belg.  or  Bull.  Ac.  R.  Belg.  or  Bull.  Ac.  roy.  de  Belgique  or 
Bull.  Ac.  roy.  Belgique  or  Bull.  Ac.  roy.  Belg.  or  Bull.  Ac.  R.  Belg.,  CI. 
des  Sciences:  Bulletin  de  l'Academie  Royale  des  Sciences,  des  Lettres  et 
des  Beaux-arts  de  Belgique.  Classe  des  Sciences. 

Bull.  Natl.  Res.  Coun.:  Bulletin  of  the  National  Research  Council  (U.S.). 
Comm.  Fenn.:  Commentationes  Physico-mathematicae,  Societas  Scien- 
tiarum  Fennica. 

C.  R.  or  C.  R.  Acad.  Sc.  or  Comptes  Rendus  Acad.  Sci.  Paris:  Comptes 
Rendus  Hebdomadaires  des  Seances  de  l'Academie  des  Sciences  (Paris). 
Gott.  Nachr.:  Nachrichten  der  Akademie  der  Wissenschaften  in  Gottin- 
gen.  II,  Mathematisch-Physikalische  Klasse. 

J.  de  Phys.  or  Jour,  de  Phys.  or  Journ.  Physique  or  Journ.  d.  Phys.: 
Journal  de  Physique  (until  1919),  then  Journal  de  Physique  et  le  Radi- 
um. 

Jour.  Frank.  Inst.:  Journal  of  the  Franklin  Institute. 


xiv 


Note  on  the  bibliography 


Lincei  Rend.:  Rendiconti  Lincei. 

Manchester  Memoirs:  Manchester  Literary  and  Philosophical  Society, 
Memoirs  and  Proceedings. 

Math.  Ann.  or  Mathern.  Ann.:  Mathematische  Annalen. 

Naturw.  or  Naturwiss.  or  Naturwissensch.  or  Naturwissenschaften:  Die 

Naturwissenschaften. 

Nat.  Acad.  Sci.  Proc.  or  Proc.  Nat.  Acad.  Sci.  or  Proc.  Nat.  Acad.: 
Proceedings  of  the  National  Academy  of  Sciences  (U.S.). 
Phil.  Mag.:  Philosophical  Magazine. 

Phil.  Trans,  or  Phil.  Trans.  Roy.  Soc:  Philosophical  Transactions  of  the 
Royal  Society  of  London. 
Phys.  Rev.:  Physical  Review. 

Phys.  Zeits.  or  Phys.  Zeitsch.  or  Physik.  Zts.:  Physikalische  Zeitschrift. 
Proc.  Camb.  Phil.  Soc.  or  Proc.  Cambr.  Phil.  Soc.  or  Proc.  Cambridge 
Phil.  Soc:  Proceedings  of  the  Cambridge  Philosophical  Society. 
Proc.  Phys.  Soc:  Proceedings  of  the  Physical  Society  of  London. 
Proc.  Roy.  Soc.  or  Roy.  Soc.  Proc:  Proceedings  of  the  Royal  Society  of 
London. 

Upsala  Univ.  Arsskr.:  Uppsala  Universitets  Arsskrift. 

Z.  f.  Phys.  or  Zts.  f.  Phys.  or  Zeit.  f.  Phys.  or  Zeits.  f.  Phys.  or  Zeitsch. 

f.  Phys.  or  Zeitschr.  f.  Phys.:  Zeitschrift  fur  Physik. 


Typographic  conventions 

The  following  conventions  have  been  used. 

Square  brackets  [  ]  denote  editorial  amendments  or  (in  the  translations) 
original  wordings. 

Curly  brackets  {  }  denote  additions  (in  original  typescripts  or  manus- 
cripts). 

Angle  brackets  <  >  denote  cancellations  (in  original  typescripts  or  ma- 
nuscripts). 


Note  on  the  bibliography 

The  references  cited  in  Parts  I  and  II,  and  in  the  endnotes  and  editorial 
footnotes  to  Part  III,  are  listed  in  our  bibliography.  The  references 
cited  in  the  original  Solvay  volume  are  found  in  the  translation  of  the 
proceedings  in  Part  III. 


Permissions  and  copyright  notices  xv 
Permissions  and  copyright  notices 


Part  I 

Perspectives  on  the  1927  Solvay  conference 


1 

Historical  introduction 


Quantum  reconciliation  very  [added,  deleted]  unpleasant 
[deleted]  tendency  [deleted]  retrograde  [deleted] 
questionable  [added,  deleted]  idea  [deleted]  flippant 
[deleted]  title  leads  to  misunderstanding. 

Ehrenfest,  on  the  conference  plans1 

The  conference  was  surely  the  most  interesting  scientific 
conference  I  have  taken  part  in  so  far. 

Heisenberg,  upon  receipt  of  the  conference  photograph2 

The  early  Solvay  conferences  were  remarkable  occasions,  made  possible 
by  the  generosity  of  Belgian  industrialist  Ernest  Solvay  and,  with  the 
exception  of  the  first  conference  in  1912,  planned  and  organised  by  the 
indefatigable  Hendrik  Antoon  Lorentz.  In  this  chapter,  we  shall  first 
sketch  the  beginnings  of  the  Solvay  conferences,  Lorentz's  involvement 
and  the  situation  in  the  years  leading  up  to  1927  (sections  11.11  and  [Q)) . 
Then  we  shall  describe  specifically  the  planning  of  the  fifth  Solvay  confer- 
ence, both  in  its  scientific  aspects  ( section  [L3|)  and  in  its  more  practical 
aspects  (section  11.4)1 .  Section  11.51  presents  the  day-by-day  progress  of 
the  conference  as  far  as  it  can  be  reconstructed  from  the  sources,  while 
section  11.61  follows  the  making  of  the  volume  of  proceedings,  which  is 
the  main  source  of  original  material  from  the  fifth  Solvay  conference 
and  forms  Part  III  of  this  book. 


1.1  Ernest  Solvay  and  the  Institute  of  Physics 

Ernest  Solvay  had  an  extensive  record  of  supporting  scientific,  educa- 
tional and  social  initiatives,  as  Lorentz  emphasises  in  a  two-page  docu- 


3 


4 


Historical  introduction 


ment  written  in  September  1914,  during  the  first  months  of  the  first 
world  war:3 

I  feel  bound  to  say  some  words  in  these  days  about  one  of  Belgium's  noblest 
citizens,  one  of  the  men  whom  I  admire  and  honour  most  highly.  Mr  Ernest 
Solvay  ....  is  the  founder  of  one  of  the  most  flourishing  industries  of  the  world, 
the  soda  manufacture  based  on  the  process  invented  by  him  and  now  spread 

over  Belgium,  France,  England,  Germany,  Russia  and  the  United  States  

The  fortune  won  by  an  activity  of  half  a  century  has  been  largely  used  by  Mr 
Solvay  for  the  public  benefit.  In  the  firm  conviction  that  a  better  understanding 
of  the  laws  of  nature  and  of  human  society  will  prove  one  of  the  most  powerful 
means  for  promoting  the  happiness  of  mankind,  he  has  in  many  ways  and  on 
a  large  scale  encouraged  and  supported  scientific  research  and  teaching. 

Part  of  this  activity  was  centred  around  the  project  of  the  Cite  Scienti- 
fique,  a  series  of  institutes  in  Brussels  founded  and  endowed  by  Ernest 
Solvay  and  by  his  brother  Alfred  Solvay,  which  culminated  in  the  found- 
ing of  the  Institutes  of  Physics  and  of  Chemistry  in  1912  and  19130 

This  project  had  originally  developed  through  the  chance  encoun- 
ter between  Ernest  Solvay  and  Paul  Heger,  physician  and  professor  of 
physiology  at  the  Universite  Libre  de  Bruxelles  (ULB),  and  involved  a 
collaboration  between  Solvay,  the  ULB  and  the  city  of  Brussels.  In  June 
1892,  it  was  agreed  that  Solvay  would  construct  and  equip  two  Institutes 
of  Physiology  on  land  owned  by  the  city  in  the  Pare  Leopold  in  Brussels  0 
There  soon  followed  in  1893-94  an  Institute  for  Hygiene,  Bacteriology 
and  Therapy,  funded  mainly  by  Alfred  Solvay,  and  a  School  of  Political 
and  Social  Sciences,  founded  by  Ernest  Solvay  in  1894,  which  moved  to 
the  Cite  Scientifique  in  1901,  and  to  which  a  School  of  Commerce  was 
added  in  1904. 

The  idea  for  what  became  known  as  the  first  Solvay  conference  in 
physics  goes  back  to  Wilhelm  Nernst  and  Max  PlanckQ  who  around  1910 
considered  that  the  current  problems  in  the  theory  of  radiation  and  in 
the  theory  of  specific  heats  had  become  so  serious  that  an  international 
meeting  (indeed  a  'council')  should  be  convened  in  order  to  attempt  to 
resolve  the  situation.  The  further  encounter  between  Nernst  and  Solvay 
provided  the  material  opportunity  for  the  meeting,  and  by  July  1910, 
Nernst  was  sending  Solvay  the  detailed  proposals.  He  had  also  secured 

a  The  following  material  on  the  Cite  Scientifique  is  drawn  mainly  from  Despy-Meyer 
and  Devriese  (1997). 

b  One  was  to  become  property  of  the  city  and  given  in  use  to  the  ULB,  while  the 
other  was  to  be  leased  for  thirty  years  to  and  run  by  Solvay  himself. 

c  In  the  rest  of  this  and  in  part  of  the  following  sections,  we  draw  on  an  unpublished 
compilation  of  the  contents  of  the  Solvay  archives  by  J.  Pelseneer.4 


1.1  Ernest  Solvay  and  the  Institute  of  Physics 


5 


the  collaboration  of  Lorentz  (who  was  eventually  asked  to  preside),  of 
Knudsen  and  naturally  of  Planck,  who  wrote: 

....  anything  that  may  happen  in  this  direction  will  excite  my  greatest  interest 
and  ....  I  promise  already  my  participation  in  any  such  endeavour.  For  I  can 
say  without  exaggeration  that  in  fact  for  the  past  10  years  nothing  in  physics 
has  so  continuously  stimulated,  excited  and  irritated  me  as  much  as  these 
quanta  of  action0 

Lorentz  set  up  a  committee  to  consider  questions  relating  to  the 
new  experimental  research  that  had  been  deemed  necessary  during  the 
conference  (which  took  place  between  30  October  and  3  November  1911). 
This  committee  included  Marie  Curie,  Brillouin,  Warburg,  Kamerlingh 
Onnes,  Nernst,  Rutherford  and  Knudsen.  Lorentz  in  turn  was  asked  to 
be  the  president.  Further,  at  the  end  of  the  conference,  Solvay  proposed 
to  Lorentz  the  idea  of  a  scientific  foundation.  Lorentz's  reply  to  Solvay's 
proposals,  of  4  January  1912,  includes  extremely  detailed  suggestions  on 
the  functions  and  structure  of  the  foundation,  all  of  which  were  put  into 
practice  and  which  can  be  summarised  as  follows.6 

The  foundation  would  be  devoted  principally  to  physics  and  physical 
chemistry,  as  well  as  to  questions  relating  to  physics  from  other  sciences. 
It  would  provide  international  support  to  researchers  ('a  Rutherford,  a 
Lenard,  a  Weiss')  in  the  form  of  money  or  loan  of  scientific  instruments, 
and  it  would  provide  scholarships  for  young  Belgian  scientists  (both 
men  and  women)  to  work  in  the  best  laboratories  or  universities,  mostly 
abroad.  The  question  of  a  link  between  the  foundation  and  the  'Conseil 
de  physique'  was  left  open,  but  Lorentz  suggested  to  provide  meeting 
facilities  if  Solvay  wished  to  link  the  two.  Lorentz  suggested  instituting 
an  administrative  board  (consisting  of  a  Solvay  family  member  or  ap- 
pointee, an  appointee  of  the  King,  and  a  member  of  the  Belgian  scientific 
establishment)  and  a  scientific  committee  (which  could  initially  be  the 
one  he  had  formed  during  the  first  Solvay  conference).  Finally,  Lorentz 
suggested  housing  the  foundation  in  an  annex  of  one  of  the  existing 
institutes  in  the  Cite  Universitaire. 

During  January,  Solvay  sent  Paul  Heger  to  Leiden  to  work  with  Lor- 
entz on  the  statutes  of  the  foundation,  which  Lorentz  sent  to  Solvay 
on  2  February.  Solvay  approved  them  with  hardly  any  modifications 
(only  such  as  were  required  by  the  Belgian  legislation  of  the  time) .  The 
foundation,  or  rather  the  'Solvay  International  Institute  of  Physics',  was 

a  Exquisite  ending  in  the  original:        dass  mich  seit  10  Jahren  im  Grande  nichts  in 
der  Physik  so  ununterbrochen  an-,  er-,  und  aufregt  wie  diese  Wirkungsquanten'.5 


6 


Historical  introduction 


officially  established  on  1  May  1912,  which  predates  by  several  years  the 
establishment  of  the  comparable  Belgian  state  institutions  (Fondation 
Universitaire:  1920;  Fonds  National  de  la  Recherche  Scientifique:  1928). 
In  this  connection,  Lorentz  hoped  'that  governments  would  understand 
more  and  more  the  importance  of  scientific  research  and  that  in  the 
long  run  one  will  arrive  at  a  satisfactory  organisation,  independent  of 
the  individual  efforts  of  private  persons',7  a  sentiment  echoed  by  Solvay 
himselfEl 

The  institute,  which  Solvay  had  endowed  for  thirty  years,  could  soon 
boast  of  remarkable  activity  in  supporting  scientific  research.  The  nume- 
rous recipients  of  subsidies  granted  during  the  first  two  years  until  the 
first  world  war  included  Lebedew's  laboratory,  von  Laue,  Sommerfeld, 
Franck  and  Hertz,  W.  L.  Bragg  (who  was  later  to  become  president 
of  the  scientific  committee),  Stark,  and  Wien.  In  1913,  an  Institute  of 
Chemistry  followed  suit,  organised  along  similar  lines  to  the  Institute  of 
Physics. 


The  first  meeting  of  the  scientific  committee,  for  the  planning  of  the 
second  Solvay  conference,  took  place  on  30  September  and  1  October 
1912.  The  conference  was  held  the  following  year,  but  the  activities  of 
the  institute  were  soon  disrupted  by  the  start  of  the  first  world  war,  in 
particular  the  German  invasion  of  Belgium. 

Immediate  practical  disruption  included  the  fear  of  requisitions,  the 
difficulty  of  communication  between  the  international  membership  of 
the  scientific  committee  and,  with  regard  to  the  publication  of  the  pro- 
ceedings of  the  second  Solvay  conference,  the  impossibility  of  sending 
Lorentz  the  proofs  for  correction  and  the  eventual  prospect  of  German 
censor  shipEI 


The  war,  however,  had  longer-term  negative  implications  for  interna- 
tional intellectual  cooperation.  In  October  1914,  a  group  of  93  repres- 
entatives of  German  science  and  culture  signed  the  manifesto  'An  die 

a  'Mr  Solvay  also  thinks  that  it  is  the  role  of  the  state  to  subsidise  and  organise 
scientific  institutions,  and  he  hopes  that  in  thirty  years  the  state  will  fulfill  this 
duty  better  than  it  does  today.'8 

a  The  proceedings  of  the  first  Solvay  conference  had  had  both  a  French  and  a  German 
edition.  Those  of  the  second  Solvay  conference  were  printed  in  three  languages  in 
f9f5,  but  never  published  in  this  form  and  later  mostly  destroyed.  Only  under 
the  changed  conditions  after  the  war,  in  f92f ,  were  the  proceedings  published  in 
a  French  translation  (carried  out,  as  on  later  occasions,  by  J.-E.  Verschaffelt). 


1.2  War  and  international  relations 


1.2  War  and  international  relations 


7 


Kulturwelt!',  denying  German  responsibilities  in  the  warQ  Among  the 
signatories  were  both  Nernst  and  Planck.  This  manifesto  was  partly 
responsible  for  the  very  strong  hostility  of  French  and  Belgian  scientists 
and  institutions  towards  renewal  of  scientific  relations  with  Germany 
after  the  war. 

No  Germans  or  Austrians  were  invited  to  the  third  Solvay  conference 
of  1921.  The  only  exception  (which  remained  problematic  until  the  last 
minute)  was  Ehrenfest,  who  was  Austrian,  but  who  had  remained  in 
Leiden  throughout  the  war  as  Lorentz's  successor.  Similarly,  no  Germans 
participated  in  the  fourth  Solvay  conference  of  1924.  French  and  Belgian 
armies  had  occupied  the  Ruhr  in  January  1923,  and  the  international 
situation  was  particularly  tense.  Einstein  had  (temporarily)  resigned 
from  the  League  of  Nations'  Committee  on  Intellectual  Cooperation,  and 
wrote  to  Lorentz  that  he  would  not  participate  in  the  Solvay  conference 
because  of  the  exclusion  of  the  German  scientists,  and  that  he  should 
please  make  sure  that  no  invitation  was  sent.9  Bohr  also  declined  to  par- 
ticipate in  the  conference  apparently  because  of  the  continued  exclusion 
of  German  scientists  (Moore  1989,  p.  157).  Schrodinger,  however,  who 
was  Austrian  and  working  in  Switzerland,  was  invitedO 

Einstein  had  distinguished  himself  by  assuming  a  pacifist  position 
during  the  war@  Lorentz  was  pointing  out  Einstein's  exceptional  case  to 
Solvay  already  in  January  1919: 

However,  in  talking  about  the  Germans,  we  must  not  lose  sight  of  the  fact  that 
they  come  in  all  kinds  of  nuances.  A  man  like  Einstein,  the  great  and  profound 
physicist,  is  not  'German'  in  the  sense  one  often  attaches  to  the  word  today; 
his  judgement  on  the  events  of  the  past  years  will  not  differ  at  all  from  yours 
or  mine.11 

a  The  main  claims  of  the  manifesto  were:        It  is  not  true  that  Germany  is  the 

cause  of  this  war         It  is  not  true  that  we  have  wantonly  [freventlich]  infringed 

the  neutrality  of  Belgium         It  is  not  true  that  the  life  and  property  of  a  single 

Belgian  citizen  has  been  touched  by  our  soldiers,  except  when  utter  self-defence 

required  it  It  is  not  true  that  our  troops  have  raged  brutally  against  Leuven  

It  is  not  true  that  our  conduct  of  war  disregards  the  laws  of  international  right  

/(  is  not  true  that  the  struggle  against  our  so-called  militarism  is  not  a  struggle 
against  our  culture       (translated  from  Bohme  1975,  pp.  47-9). 

a  Van  Aubel  (a  member  of  the  scientific  committee)  objected  strongly  in  1923  to  the 
possibility  of  Einstein  being  invited  to  the  fourth  Solvay  conference,  and  resigned 
when  it  was  decided  to  invite  him.  It  appears  he  was  convinced  to  remain  on  the 
committee.10 

b  For  instance,  Einstein  was  one  of  only  four  signatories  of  the  counter-manifesto 
'Aufruf  an  die  Europaer'  (Nicolai  1917).  Note  also  that  Einstein  had  renounced 
his  German  citizenship  and  had  become  a  Swiss  citizen  in  1901,  although  there 
was  some  uncertainty  about  his  citizenship  when  he  was  awarded  the  Nobel  prize 
(Pais  1982,  pp.  45  and  503-4). 


8 


Historical  introduction 


In  the  meantime,  after  the  treaty  of  Locarno  of  1925,  Germany  was 
going  to  join  the  League  of  Nations,  but  the  details  of  the  negotiations 
were  problematic^  As  early  as  February  1926,  one  finds  mention  of 
the  prospect  of  renewed  inclusion  of  German  scientists  at  the  Solvay 
conferences.13  In  the  same  month,  Kamerlingh  Onnes  died,  and  at  the 
next  meeting  of  the  scientific  committee,  in  early  April  (at  which  the 
fifth  Solvay  conference  was  planned),  it  was  decided  to  propose  both 
to  invite  Einstein  to  replace  Onnes  and  to  include  again  the  German 
scientists. 

On  1  April,  Charles  Lefebure,  then  secretary  of  the  administrative 
commission,  wrote  to  commission  members  Armand  Solvay  and  Jules 
Bordetjf]  enquiring  about  the  admissibility  of  'moderate  figures  like  Ein- 
stein, Plancl0  and  others'16  (Bordet  telegraphed  back:  'Germany  will 
soon  be  League  of  Nations  therefore  no  objection'17).  On  2  April,  Lorentz 
himself  had  a  long  interview  with  the  King,  who  gave  his  approval. 

Thus,  finally,  Lorentz  wrote  to  Einstein  on  6  April,  informing  him 
of  the  unanimous  decision  by  the  members  of  the  committee  present 
at  the  meeting^]  as  well  as  of  the  whole  administrative  commission,  to 
invite  him  to  succeed  Kamerlingh  Onnes.  The  Solvay  conferences  were 
to  readmit  Germans,  and  if  Einstein  were  a  member  of  the  committee, 
Lorentz  hoped  this  would  encourage  the  German  scientists  to  accept  the 
invitation.18  Einstein  was  favourably  impressed  by  the  positive  Belgian 
attitude  and  glad  to  accept  under  the  altered  conditions.19  Lorentz 
proceeded  to  invite  the  German  scientists,  'not  because  there  should 
be  such  a  great  haste  in  the  thing,  rather  to  show  the  Germans  as  soon 


a  Lorentz  to  Einstein  on  14  March  1926:  'Things  are  bad  with  the  League  of  Nations; 
if  only  one  could  yet  find  a  way  out  until  the  day  after  tomorrow'. 12 Negotiations 
provisionally  broke  down  on  17  March,  but  Germany  eventually  joined  the  League 
in  September  1926. 

a  Lefebure  was  the  appointee  of  the  Solvay  family  to  the  administrative  commission, 
and  as  such  succeeded  Eugene  Tassel,  who  had  died  in  October  1922  and  had  been 
a  long-standing  collaborator  of  Ernest  Solvay  since  1886.  Armand  Solvay  was  the 
son  of  Ernest  Solvay,  who  had  died  on  26  May  1922.  Bordet  was  the  royal  appointee 
to  the  commission,  and  had  just  been  appointed  in  February  1926,  following  the 
death  of  Paul  Heger.14 

b  According  to  Lorentz,  Planck  had  always  been  helpful  to  him  when  he  had  tried 
to  intervene  with  the  German  authorities  during  the  war.  Further,  Planck  had 
somewhat  qualified  his  position  with  regard  to  the  Kulturwelt  manifesto  in  an 
open  letter,  which  he  asked  Lorentz  to  publish  in  the  Dutch  newspapers  in  1916. 
On  the  other  hand,  he  explicitly  ruled  out  a  public  disavowal  of  the  manifesto  in 
December  1923. 15 

c  Listed  as  Marie  Curie,  Langevin,  Richardson,  Guye  and  Knudsen  (with  two 
members  absent,  W.  H.  Bragg  and  Van  Aubel). 


1.2  War  and  international  relations 


9 


as  possible  our  good  will',20  and  sent  the  informal  invitations  to  Born, 
Heisenberg  and  Planck  (as  well  as  to  Bohr)  in  or  around  June  1926. 21 

As  late  as  October  1927,  however,  the  issue  was  still  a  sensitive  one. 
Van  Aubel  (who  had  not  been  present  at  the  April  1926  meeting  of  the 
scientific  committee)  replied  in  the  negative  to  the  official  invitation 
to  the  conference^!  Furthermore,  it  was  proposed  to  release  the  list 
of  participants  to  the  press  only  after  the  conference  to  avoid  public 
demonstrations.  Lorentz  travelled  in  person  to  Brussels  on  17  October 
to  discuss  the  matter.23 

Lorentz's  own  position  during  and  immediately  after  the  war,  as  a 
physicist  from  one  of  the  neutral  countries,  had  possibly  been  rather 
delicate.  In  the  text  on  Ernest  Solvay  from  which  we  have  quoted  at  the 
beginning  of  this  chapter,  for  instance,  he  appears  to  be  defending  the 
impartiality  of  the  policies  of  the  Institute  of  Physics  in  the  years  leading 
up  to  the  war.  Lorentz  started  working  for  some  form  of  reconciliation  as 
soon  as  the  war  was  over,  writing  as  follows  to  Solvay  in  January  1919: 


All  things  considered,  I  think  I  must  propose  to  you  not  to  exclude  formally 
the  Germans,  that  is,  not  to  close  the  door  on  them  forever.  I  hope  that  it  may 
be  open  for  a  new  generation,  and  even  that  maybe,  in  the  course  of  the  years, 
one  may  admit  those  of  today's  scholars  who  one  can  believe  regret  sincerely 
and  honestly  the  events  that  have  taken  place.  Thus  German  science  will  be 
able  to  regain  the  place  that,  despite  everything,  it  deserves  for  its  past.24 


It  should  be  noted  that  Lorentz  was  not  only  the  scientific  organiser  of 
the  Solvay  institute  and  the  Solvay  conferences,  but  also  a  prime  mover 
behind  efforts  towards  international  intellectual  cooperation,  through  his 
heavy  involvement  with  the  Conseil  International  de  Recherches,  as  well 
as  with  the  League  of  Nations'  Committee  on  Intellectual  Cooperation, 
of  which  he  was  a  member  from  1923  and  president  from  1925  B 

Lorentz's  figure  and  contributions  to  the  Solvay  conferences  are  mov- 
ingly recalled  by  Marie  Curie  in  her  obituary  of  Lorentz  in  the  proceed- 
ings of  the  fifth  Solvay  conference  (which  opens  Part  III  of  this  volume) . 


a  Lefebure's  comment  was:  'because  there  are  Germans!  Then  why  does  he  stay  in 
the  Institute  of  Physics?'22 

b  The  Conseil  International  de  Recherches  (founded  in  1919)  has  today  become 
the  International  Council  for  Science  (ICSU).  The  Committee  on  Intellectual 
Cooperation  (founded  in  1922)  and  the  related  International  Institute  of 
Intellectual  Cooperation  (inaugurated  in  Paris  in  1926)  were  the  forerunners  of 
UNESCO.25 


10 


Historical  introduction 


1.3  Scientific  planning  and  background 

What  was  at  issue  in  the  remark  that  heads  this  chapter  @  scribbled  by 
Ehrenfest  in  the  margin  of  a  letter  from  Lorentz,  was  the  proposed  topic 
for  the  fifth  Solvay  conference,  namely  'the  conflict  and  the  possible 
reconciliation  between  the  classical  theories  and  the  theory  of  quanta'.26 
Ehrenfest  found  the  phrasing  objectionable  in  that  it  encouraged  one 
to  'swindle  away  the  fruitful  and  suggestive  harshness  of  the  conflict  by 
most  slimy  unclear  thinking,  quite  in  analogy  with  what  happened  also 
even  after  1900  with  the  mechanical  ether  theories  of  the  Maxwell  equa- 
tions', pointing  out  that  'Bohr  feels  even  more  strongly  than  me  against 
this  slogan  [Schlagwort] ,  precisely  because  he  takes  it  so  particularly  to 
heart  to  find  the  foundations  of  the  future  theory'.27 

Lorentz  took  Ehrenfest 's  suggestion  into  account,  and  dropped  the 
reference  to  reconciliation  both  from  the  title  and  from  later  descriptions 
of  the  focus  of  the  meeting^] 

The  meeting  of  the  scientific  committee  for  the  planning  of  the  fifth 
Solvay  conference  took  place  in  Brussels  on  1  and  2  April  1926.  Lorentz 
reported  a  few  days  later  to  Einstein: 

As  the  topic  for  1927  we  have  chosen  'The  quantum  theory  and  the  classical 
theories  of  radiation',  and  we  hope  to  have  the  following  reports  or  lectures: 

1  W.  L.  Bragg.  New  tests  of  the  classical  theory. 

2  A.  H.  Compton.  Compton  effect  and  its  consequences. 

3  C.  T.  R.  Wilson.  Observations  on  photoelectrons  and  collision  electrons  by 
the  condensation  method. 

4  L.  de  Broglie.  Interference  and  light  quanta. 

5  (short  note):  Kramers.  Theory  of  Slater-Bohr- Kramers  and  analogous  the- 
ories. 

6  Einstein.  New  derivations  of  Planck's  law  and  applications  of  statistics  to 
quanta. 

7  Heisenberg.  Adaptation  of  the  foundations  of  dynamics  to  the  quantum 
theory.29 

Another  report,  by  the  committee's  secretary  Verschaffelt,30  adds,  con- 
cerning point  5:  '(at  least,  if  Mr  Kramers  judges  that  it  is  still  useful)';  it 

a  In  the  original:  'Quantenverzoening  <{zeer}  antipathik<e>>  <tendentie> 
<retrograde>  <{bedenkelijk<e>}>  <idee>  <loszinnige>  [?]  titel  wekt 
misverstand'.  Many  thanks  to  Mark  van  Atten  for  help  with  this  passage. 

a  To  Bohr  in  June  1926:  the  conflict  between  the  classical  theories  and  the 
quantum  theory  ....  ';  to  Schrodinger  in  January  1927:  '  ....  the  contrast  between 
the  current  and  the  earlier  conceptions  [Auffassungen]  and  the  attempts  at 
development  of  a  new  mechanics'.28 


1.3  Scientific  planning  and  background 


11 


further  lists  a  few  alternative  speakers:  Compton  or  Debye  for  2,  Einstein 
or  Ehrenfest  for  6,  and  Heisenberg  or  Schrodinger  for 

Thus,  the  fifth  Solvay  conference,  as  originally  planned,  was  to  focus 
mainly  on  the  theory  of  radiation  and  on  light  quanta,  including  only 
one  report  on  the  new  quantum  theory  of  matter.  The  shift  in  focus 
between  1926  and  1927  was  clearly  due  to  major  theoretical  advances  (for 
example  by  Schrodinger  and  Dirac)  and  new  experimental  results  (such 
as  the  Davisson-Germer  experiments),  and  it  can  be  partly  followed  as 
the  planning  of  the  conference  progressed. 

Schrodinger's  wave  mechanics  was  one  of  the  major  theoretical  de- 
velopments of  the  year  1926.  Einstein,  who  had  been  alerted  to  Schro- 
dinger's first  paper  by  Planck  (cf.  Przibram  1967,  p.  23),  suggested  to 
Lorentz  that  Schrodinger  should  talk  at  the  conference  instead  of  himself, 
on  the  basis  of  his  new  'theory  of  quantum  states',  which  he  described 
as  a  development  of  genius  of  de  Broglie's  ideas.31  While  it  is  unclear 
whether  Lorentz  knew  of  Schrodinger's  papers  by  the  time  of  the  April 
meeting^  Schrodinger  was  listed  a  week  later  as  a  possible  substitute 
for  Heisenberg,  and  Lorentz  himself  was  assuring  Einstein  at  the  end 
of  April  that  Schrodinger  was  already  being  considered,  specifially  as 
a  substitute  for  the  report  on  the  new  foundations  of  dynamics  rather 
than  for  the  report  on  quantum  statistics  0 

Lorentz  closely  followed  the  development  of  wave  mechanics,  indeed 
contributing  some  essential  critique  in  his  correspondence  with  Schro- 
dinger from  this  period,  for  the  most  part  translated  in  Przibram  (1967) 
(see  chapter  31  especially  sections  14.31  and  14. 4^  for  some  more  details 
on  this  correspondence).  Lorentz  also  gave  a  number  of  colloquia  and 
lectures  on  wave  mechanics  (and  on  matrix  mechanics)  in  the  period 
leading  up  to  the  Solvay  conference,  in  Leiden,  Ithaca  and  Pasadena.32 
In  Pasadena  he  also  had  the  opportunity  of  discussing  with  Schrodinger 
the  possibility  that  Schrodinger  may  also  give  a  report  at  the  conference, 
as  in  fact  he  didB  Schrodinger's  wave  mechanics  had  also  made  a  great 
impression  on  Einstein,  although  he  repeatedly  expressed  his  unease  to 
Lorentz  at  the  use  of  wave  functions  on  configuration  space  ('obscure',34 
'harsh',35  a  'Mysterium'36),  and  again  during  the  general  discussion 
(p-HEID. 

a  For  details  of  the  other  participants,  see  the  next  section, 
a  Cf.  section  HTTI 

b  Note  that  Schrodinger  (1926a)  had  written  on  'Einstein's  gas  theory'  in  a  paper 
that  is  an  immediate  precursor  to  his  series  of  papers  on  quantisation. 

c  Lorentz  was  at  Cornell  from  September  to  December  1926,  then  in  Pasadena  until 
March  1927. 33On  Schrodinger's  American  voyage,  see  Moore  (1989,  pp.  230-33). 


12 


Historical  introduction 


One  sees  Lorentz's  involvement  with  the  recent  developments  also  in 
his  correspondence  with  Ehrenfest.  In  particular,  Lorentz  appears  to 
have  been  struck  by  Dirac's  contributions  to  quantum  mechanics!!  In 
June  1927,  Lorentz  invited  Dirac  to  spend  the  following  academic  year 
in  Leiden  ,38  and  asked  Born  and  Heisenberg  to  include  a  discussion  of 
Dirac's  work  in  their  report.39  Finally,  in  late  August,  Lorentz  decided 
that  Dirac,  and  also  Pauli,  ought  to  be  invited  to  the  conference,  for 
indeed: 

Since  last  year,  quantum  mechanics,  which  will  be  our  topic,  has  developed 
with  an  unexpected  rapidity,  and  some  physicists  who  were  formerly  in  the 
second  tier  have  made  extremely  notable  contributions.  For  this  reason  I 
would  be  very  keen  to  invite  also  Mr  Dirac  of  Cambridge  and  Mr  Pauli  of 

Copenhagen        Their  collaboration  would  be  very  useful  to  us  ....  I  need  not 

consult  the  scientific  committee  because  Mr  Dirac  and  Mr  Pauli  were  both  on 
a  list  that  we  had  drawn  up  last  year  40 

Lorentz  invited  Pauli  on  5  September  1927  (Pauli  1979,  pp.  408-9)  and 
Dirac  sometime  before  13  September  1927. 41 

On  the  experimental  side,  some  of  the  main  achievements  of  1927  were 
the  experiments  on  matter  waves.  While  originally  de  Broglie  was  listed 
to  give  a  report  on  light  quanta,  the  work  he  presented  was  about  both 
light  quanta  and  material  particles  (indeed,  electrons  and  photons!),  and 
Lorentz  asked  him  explicitly  to  include  some  discussion  of  the  recent 
experiments  speaking  in  favour  of  the  notion  of  matter  waves,  specifically 
discussing  Elsasser's  (1925)  proposals,  and  the  experimental  work  of 
Dymond  (1927)  and  of  Davisson  and  Germer  (192  7). 42  Thus,  in  the  final 
programme  of  the  conference,  we  find  three  reports  on  the  foundations 
of  a  new  mechanics,  by  de  Broglie,  Heisenberg  (together  with  Born)  and 
Schrodinger. 

The  talks  given  by  Bragg  and  Compton,  instead,  reflect  at  least  in  part 
the  initial  orientation  of  the  conference.  Here  is  how  Compton  presents 
the  division  of  labour  (p.  I329[) : 

Professor  W.  L.  Bragg  has  just  discussed  a  whole  series  of  radiation  phenomena 

in  which  the  electromagnetic  theory  is  confirmed  I  have  been  left  the  task  of 

pleading  the  opposing  cause  to  that  of  the  electromagnetic  theory  of  radiation, 
seen  from  the  experimental  viewpoint. 

Bragg  focusses  in  particular  on  the  technique  of  X-ray  analysis,  as  the 
'most  direct  way  of  analysing  atomic  and  molecular  structure'  (p.  I284[) . 

a  This  correspondence  includes  for  instance  a  15-page  commentary  by  Lorentz  on 
Dirac  (1927a).37 


1.3  Scientific  planning  and  background  13 

the  development  of  which,  as  he  had  mentioned  to  Lorentz,  was  the 
'line  in  which  [he  had]  been  especially  interested'.43  This  includes  in 
particular  the  investigation  of  the  electronic  charge  distribution.  At 
Lorentz 's  request,  he  had  also  included  a  discussion  of  the  refraction 
of  X-rays  (section  8  of  his  report),  which  is  directly  relevant  to  the 
discussion  after  Compton's  report.44  As  described  by  Lorentz  in  June 
1927,  Bragg  was  to  report  'on  phenomena  that  still  somehow  allow  a 
classical  description'.45  A  few  more  aspects  of  Bragg's  report  are  of 
immediate  relevance  for  the  rest  of  the  conference,  especially  to  the 
discussion  of  Schrodinger's  interpretation  of  the  wave  function  in  terms 
of  an  electric  charge  density  (pp.  I307U3121  section  |4~4|) .  and  so  are  some 
of  the  issues  taken  up  further  in  the  discussion  (Hartree  approximation, 
problems  with  waves  in  three  dimensions),  but  it  is  fair  to  say  that  the 
report  provides  a  rather  distant  background  for  what  followed  it. 

Compton's  talk  covers  the  topics  of  points  2  and  3  listed  above.  The 
explicit  focus  of  his  report  is  the  three-way  comparison  between  the 
photon  hypothesis,  the  Bohr-Kramers-Slater  (BKS)  theory  of  radiation, 
and  the  classical  theory  of  radiation.  Note,  however,  that  Compton 
introduces  many  of  the  topics  of  later  discussions.  For  instance,  he 
discusses  the  problem  of  how  to  explain  atomic  radiation  (section  on 
'The  emission  of  radiation',  p.  1333ft .  which  is  inexplicable  from  the  point 
of  view  of  the  classical  theory,  given  that  the  'orbital  frequencies'  in  the 
atom  do  not  correspond  to  the  emission  frequencies.  This  problem  was 
one  of  Schrodinger's  main  concerns  and  one  of  the  main  points  of  conflict 
between  Schrodinger  and,  for  instance,  Heisenberg  (see  in  particular  the 
discussion  after  Schrodinger's  report  and,  below,  sections  14.41  and  |4.6|) . 
Compton's  discussion  of  the  photon  hypothesis  relates  to  the  question  of 
'guiding  fields'  (pp.  13311  and  I354[)  and  of  the  localisation  of  particles  or 
energy  quanta  within  a  wave  (pp.  13391  and!348p.  These  in  turn  are  closely 
connected  with  some  of  de  Broglie's  and  Einstein's  ideas  (see  below 
chapter  [71  especially  section  [721  and  chapter  [9]),  and  with  de  Broglie's 
report  on  pilot-wave  theory  and  Einstein's  remark  about  locality  in  the 
general  discussion  (p.  1487(1 . 

Bohr  had  been  a  noted  sceptic  of  the  photon  hypothesis,  and  in  1924 
Bohr,  Kramers  and  Slater  had  developed  a  theory  that  was  able  to  main- 
tain a  wave  picture  of  radiation,  by  introducing  a  description  of  the  atom 
based  on  'virtual  oscillators'  with  frequencies  equal  to  the  frequencies  of 
emission  (Bohr,  Kramers  and  Slater  1924a, b)  3  A  stationary  state  of 


a  As  Darrigol  (1992,  p.  257)  emphasises,  while  the  free  virtual  fields  obey  the 


14 


Historical  introduction 


an  atom,  say  the  nth,  is  associated  with  a  state  of  excitation  of  the 
oscillators  with  frequencies  corresponding  to  transitions  from  the  energy 
En.  Such  oscillators  produce  a  classical  radiation  field  (a  'virtual'  one), 
which  in  turn  determines  the  probabilities  for  spontaneous  emission  in 
the  atom,  that  is,  for  the  emission  of  energy  from  the  atom  and  the 
jump  to  a  stationary  state  of  lower  energy.  The  virtual  field  of  one  atom 
also  interacts  with  the  virtual  oscillators  in  other  atoms  (which  in  turn 
produce  secondary  virtual  radiation)  and  influences  the  probabilities 
for  induced  emission  and  absorption  in  the  other  atoms.  While  the 
theory  provides  a  mechanism  for  radiation  consistent  with  the  picture 
of  stationary  states  (cf.  Compton's  remarks,  p.  1335(1 .  it  violates  energy 
and  momentum  conservation  for  single  events,  in  that  an  emission  in  one 
atom  is  not  connected  directly  to  an  absorption  in  another  atom,  but 
only  indirectly  through  the  virtual  radiation  field.  Energy  and  momen- 
tum conservation  hold  only  at  a  statistical  level.  The  BKS  proposal  was 
short-lived,  because  the  Bothe-Geiger  and  Compton-Simon  experiments 
established  the  conservation  laws  for  individual  processes  (as  explained 
in  detail  by  Compton  in  his  report,  pp.  I35QI  ff.).  Thus,  at  the  time  of 
the  planning  of  the  fifth  Solvay  conference,  the  experimental  evidence 
had  ruled  out  the  BKS  theory  (hence  the  above  remark:  'if  Mr  Kramers 
judges  that  it  is  still  useful^)  u  The  short  note  5,  indeed,  dropped  out  of 
the  programme  altogether^ 

The  description  of  the  interaction  between  matter  and  radiation,  in 
particular  the  Compton  effect,  continued  to  be  a  problem  for  Bohr,  and 
contributed  to  the  development  of  his  views  on  wave-particle  dualism  and 
complementarity.  In  his  contribution  to  the  discussion  after  Compton's 
report  (p.  13591  the  longest  of  his  published  contributions  in  the  Solvay 
volumcl),  Bohr  sketches  the  motivations  behind  the  BKS  theory,  the 

Maxwell  equations,  i.e.  can  be  considered  to  be  classical,  the  virtual  oscillators  and 
the  interaction  between  the  fields  and  the  oscillators  are  non-classical  in  several 
respects. 

a  Bothe  and  Geiger  had  been  working  on  their  experiments  since  June  1924  (Bothe 
and  Geiger  1924),  and  provisional  results  were  being  debated  by  the  turn  of  the 
year.  For  two  differing  views  on  the  significance  of  these  results  for  instance  see 
Einstein  to  Lorentz,  16  December  1924  (the  same  letter  in  which  he  wrote  to 
Lorentz  about  de  Broglie's  results)46  and  the  exchange  of  letters  between  Born 
and  Bohr  in  January  1925  (Bohr  1984,  pp.  302-6).  By  April  1925,  Bothe  and 
Geiger  had  clear-cut  results  against  the  BKS  theory  (Bothe  and  Geiger  1925a, b; 
see  also  the  letters  between  Geiger  and  Bohr  in  Bohr  1984,  pp.  352-4). 

b  On  the  BKS  theory  and  related  matters,  see  also  chapter[3](especially  sectionsl3.3.1l 
and  13. 4.211.  chapter  O  Darrigol  (1992,  chapter  9),  the  excellent  introduction 
by  Stolzenburg  to  Part  I  of  Bohr  (1984)  and  Mehra  and  Rechenberg  (1982, 
section  V.2). 

a  See  below  for  the  fate  of  his  contribution  to  the  general  discussion. 


1.3  Scientific  planning  and  background 


15 


conclusions  to  be  drawn  from  the  Bothe-Geiger  and  Compton-Simon 
experiments  and  the  further  development  of  his  views. 

Lorentz,  in  his  report  of  the  meeting  to  Einstein  had  mentioned  'Slater- 
Bohr-Kramers  and  analogous  theories'.  This  may  refer  to  the  further 
developments  (independent  of  the  validity  of  the  BKS  theory)  that  led  in 
particular  to  Kramer's  (1924)  dispersion  theory  (and  from  there  towards 
matrix  mechanics),  or  to  Slater's  original  ideas,  which  were  roughly  along 
the  lines  of  guiding  fields  for  the  photons  (even  though  the  photons  were 
dropped  from  the  final  BKS  proposal)  Q  Note  that  Einstein  at  this  time 
was  also  thinking  about  guiding  fields  (in  three  dimensions).  Pais  (1982, 
pp.  440-41)  writes  that,  according  to  Wigner,  Einstein  did  not  publish 
these  ideas  because  they  also  led  to  problems  with  the  conservation 
lawsO 

Einstein  was  asked  by  Lorentz  to  contribute  a  report  on  'New  deriva- 
tions of  Planck's  law  and  applications  of  statistics  to  quanta'  (point  6), 
clearly  referring  to  the  work  by  Bose  (1924)  on  Planck's  law,  championed 
by  Einstein  and  applied  by  him  to  the  theory  of  the  ideal  gas  (Einstein 
1924, 1925a, b).  The  second  of  these  papers  is  also  where  Einstein  famous- 
ly endorses  de  Broglie's  idea  of  matter  waves.  Einstein  thought  that  his 
work  on  the  subject  was  already  too  well-known,  but  he  accepted  after 
Lorentz  repeated  his  invitation.47  On  17  June  1927,  however,  at  about 
the  time  when  Lorentz  was  sending  detailed  requests  to  the  speakers, 
Einstein  informed  him  in  the  following  terms  that  he  would  not,  after 
all,  present  a  report: 

I  recall  having  committed  myself  to  you  to  give  a  report  on  quantum  statistics 
at  the  Solvay  conference.  After  much  reflection  back  and  forth,  I  come  to  the 
conviction  that  I  am  not  competent  [to  give]  such  a  report  in  a  way  that  really 
corresponds  to  the  state  of  things.  The  reason  is  that  I  have  not  been  able 
to  participate  as  intensively  in  the  modern  development  of  quantum  theory 
as  would  be  necessary  for  this  purpose.  This  is  in  part  because  I  have  on  the 
whole  too  little  receptive  talent  for  fully  following  the  stormy  developments, 
in  part  also  because  I  do  not  approve  of  the  purely  statistical  way  of  thinking 
on  which  the  new  theories  are  founded  ....  Up  until  now,  I  kept  hoping  to  be 
able  to  contribute  something  of  value  in  Brussels;  I  have  now  given  up  that 
hope.  I  beg  you  not  to  be  angry  with  me  because  of  that;  I  did  not  take  this 
lightly  but  tried  with  all  my  strength  ....  (Quoted  in  Pais  1982,  pp.  431-2) 

Einstein's  withdrawal  may  be  related  to  the  following  circumstances.  On 

a  Cf.  Slater  (1924)  and  Mehra  and  Rechenberg  (1982,  pp.  543-6).  See  also  Pauli's 

remark  during  the  discussion  of  de  Broglie's  report  (p. [400}. 
b  Cf.  Einstein's  contribution  to  the  general  discussion  (p.  I485|l  and  the  discussion 

below  in  chapter  [9] 


16 


Historical  introduction 


5  May  1927,  during  a  meeting  of  the  Prussian  Academy  of  Sciences  in 
Berlin,  Einstein  had  read  a  paper  on  the  question:  'Does  Schrodinger's 
wave  mechanics  determine  the  motion  of  a  system  completely  or  only  in 
the  sense  of  statistics?'48  As  discussed  in  detail  by  Belousek  (1996),  the 
paper  attempts  to  define  deterministic  particle  motions  from  Schroding- 
er's wave  functions,  but  was  also  suddenly  withdrawn  on  21  MayB 

The  plans  for  the  talks  were  finalised  by  Lorentz  around  June  1927. 
An  extract  from  his  letter  to  Schrodinger  on  the  subject  reads  as  follows: 

[W]e  hope  to  have  the  following  reports  [Referate]  (I  give  them  in  the  order 
in  which  we  might  discuss  them): 

1.  Prom  Mr  W.  L.  Bragg  on  phenomena  that  still  somehow  allow  a  classical 
description  (reflexion  of  X-rays  by  crystals,  diffraction  and  total  reflection  of 
X-rays) . 

2.  From  Mr  Compton  on  the  effect  discovered  by  him  and  what  relates  to  it. 

3.  Prom  Mr  de  Broglie  on  his  theory.  I  am  asking  him  also  to  take  into  account 
the  application  of  his  ideas  to  free  electrons  (Elsasser,  quantum  mechanics  of 
free  electrons;  Dymond,  Davisson  and  Germer,  scattering  of  electrons). 

4.  Prom  Dr  Heisenberg  or  Prof.  Born  (the  choice  is  left  to  them)  on  matrix 
mechanics,  including  Dirac's  theory. 

5.  Your  report  [on  wave  mechanics]. 

Maybe  another  one  or  two  short  communications  [Berichte]  on  special  topics 
will  be  added.50 

This  was,  indeed,  the  final  programme  of  the  conference,  with  Born 
and  Heisenberg  deciding  to  contribute  a  joint  reportE 


1.4  Further  details  of  planning 

In  1926-27  the  scientific  committee  and  the  administrative  commission 
of  the  Solvay  institute  were  composed  as  follows. 

a  The  news  of  Einstein's  communication  prompted  an  exchange  of  letters  between 
Heisenberg  and  Einstein,  of  which  Heisenberg's  letters,  of  19  May  and  10  June, 
survive. 49The  second  of  these  is  particularly  interesting,  because  Heisenberg 
presents  in  some  detail  his  view  of  theories  that  include  particle  trajectories.  Both 
Einstein's  hidden-variables  proposal  and  Heisenberg's  reaction  will  be  described 
in  section  [11.31 

a  See  section  13.21  Note  that,  as  we  shall  see  below,  while  Bohr  contributed 
significantly  to  the  general  discussion  and  reported  the  views  he  had  developed 
in  Como  (Bohr  1949,  p.  216,  1985,  pp.  35-7),  he  was  unable  to  prepare  an  edited 
version  of  his  comments  in  time  and  therefore  suggested  that  a  translation  of  his 
Como  lecture,  in  the  version  for  Naturwissenschaften  (Bohr  1928),  be  included  in 
the  volume  instead.  This  has  given  rise  to  a  common  belief  that  Bohr  gave  a  report 
on  a  par  with  the  other  reports,  and  that  the  general  discussion  at  the  conference 
was  the  discussion  following  it.  See  for  instance  Mehra  (1975,  p.  152),  and  Mehra 
and  Rechenberg  (2000,  pp.  246  and  249),  who  appear  further  to  believe  that  Bohr 
did  not  participate  in  the  official  discussion. 


1.4  Further  details  of  planning 


17 


Scientific  committee:  Lorentz  (Leiden)  as  president,  Knudsen  (Copen- 
hagen) as  secretary,  W.  H.  Bragg  (until  May  1927,  London) Q  Marie 
Curie  (Paris),  Einstein  (since  April  1926,  Berlin),  Charles-Eugene  Guye 
(Geneva) 0  Langevin  (Paris),  Richardson  (London),  Edm.  van  Aubel 
(Gent). 

Administrative  commission:  Armand  Solvay,  Jules  Bordet  (ULB),  Mau- 
rice Bourquin  (ULB),  Emile  Henriot  (ULB);  the  administrative  secretary 
since  1922,  and  thus  main  correspondent  of  Lorentz  and  others,  was 
Charles  Lefebure. 

The  secretary  of  the  meeting  was  Jules-Emile.  Verschaffelt  (Gent), 
who  had  acted  as  secretary  since  the  third  Solvay  conference.52 

The  first  provisional  list  of  possible  participants  (in  addition  to  Eh- 
renfest)  appears  in  Lorentz's  letter  to  Ehrenfest  of  29  March  1926: 

Einstein,  Bohr,  Kramers,  Born,  Heisenberg  (Jordan  surely  more  mathemati- 
cian), Pauli,  Ladenburg  (?),  Slater,  the  young  Bragg  (because  of  the  'cor- 
respondence' to  the  classical  theory  that  his  work  has  often  resulted  in), 
J.  J.  Thomson,  another  one  or  two  Englishmen  (Darwin?  Fowler?),  Leon 
Brillouin  (do  not  know  whether  he  has  worked  on  this,  he  has  also  already 
been  there  a  number  of  times),  Louis  de  Broglie  (light  quanta),  one  or  two 
who  have  concerned  themselves  with  diffraction  of  X-rays  (Bergen  Davis?, 
Compton,  Debye,  Dirac  (?)).53 

Lorentz  asked  for  further  suggestions  and  comments,  which  Ehrenfest 
sent  in  a  letter  dated  'Leiden  30  March  1926.  Late  at  night': 

Langevin,  Fowler,  Dirac,  J.  Fran[c]k  (already  for  the  experiments  he  devised 
by  Hanle  on  the  destruction  of  resonance  polarisation  through  Larmor  rotation 
and  for  the  work  he  proposed  by  Hund  on  the  Ramsauer  effec10—  undisturbed 
passage  of  slow  electrons  through  atoms  and  so  on),  Fermi  (for  interesting 
continuation  of  the  experiments  by  Hanle),  Oseen  (possibly  a  wrong  attempt 
at  explanation  of  needle  radiation  and  as  sharpwitted  critic),  Schrodinger  (was 
perhaps  the  first  to  give  quantum  interpretation  of  the  Doppler  effect,  thus 
close  to  Compton  effect),  Bothe  (for  Bothe-Geiger  experiment  on  correlation 
of  Compton  quantum  and  electron,  which  destroys  Bohr-Slater  theory,  alto- 
gether a  fine  brain!)  (Bothe  should  be  considered  perhaps  before  Schrodinger), 
Darwin,  Smekal  (is  indeed  a  very  deserving  connoisseur  of  quantum  finesses, 
only  he  writes  so  frightfully  much). 

Leon  Brillouin  has  published  something  recently  on  matrix  physics,  but  I 
have  not  read  it  yet.54 

a  W.  H.  Bragg  resigned  due  to  overcommitment  and  was  later  replaced  by  Cabrera 
(Madrid).51 

b  In  1909  the  university  of  Geneva  conferred  on  Einstein  his  first  honorary  degree. 

According  to  Pais  (1982,  p.  152),  this  was  probably  due  to  Guye.  Coincidentally, 

Ernest  Solvay  was  honoured  at  the  same  time, 
a  For  more  on  the  special  interest  of  the  Ramsauer  effect,  see  section  13.4.21  below. 


18 


Historical  introduction 


At  the  April  meeting  (as  listed  in  the  report  by  Verschaffelt55)  it 
was  then  decided  to  invite:  Bohr,  Kramers,  Ehrenfest,  two  among  Born, 
Heisenberg  and  Pauli,  Planck,  Fowler,  W.  L.  Bragg,  C.  T.  R.  Wilson, 
L.  de  Broglie,  L.  Brillouin,  Deslandres,  Compton,  Schrodinger  and  De- 
bye.  Possible  substitutes  were  listed  as:  M.  de  Broglie  or  Thibaud  for 
Bragg,  Dirac  for  Brillouin,  Fabry  for  Deslandres,  Kapitza  for  Wilson, 
Darwin  or  Dirac  for  Fowler,  Bergen  Davis  for  Compton,  and  Thirring  for 
Schr6dinger@The  members  of  the  scientific  commitee  would  all  take  part 
ex  officio,  and  invitations  would  be  sent  to  the  professors  of  physics  at 
ULB,  that  is,  to  Piccard,  Henriot  and  De  Donder57  (the  latter  apparently 
somewhat  to  Lefebure's  chagrin,  who,  just  before  the  conference  started, 
felt  obliged  to  remind  Lorentz  that  De  Donder  was  'a  paradoxical  mind, 
loud  [encombrant]  and  always  ready  to  seize  the  word,  often  with  great 
maladroitness'58). 

Both  the  number  of  actual  participants  and  of  observers  was  to  be 
kept  limited,59  partly  explaining  why  it  was  thought  that  one  should 
invite  only  two  among  Born,  Heisenberg  and  Pauli.  The  choice  initially 
fell  on  Born  and  Heisenberg  (although  Franck  was  also  considered  as  an 
alternative).60  Eventually,  as  noted  above,  Pauli  was  also  included,  as 
was  Dirac.61  Lorentz  was  also  keen  to  invite  Millikan  —  and  possibly 
Hall  — ,  when  he  heard  that  Millikan  would  be  in  Europe  anyway  for  the 
Como  meeting  (Einstein  and  Richardson  agreed).62  However,  nothing 
came  of  this  plan. 

When  Einstein  eventually  withdrew  as  a  speaker,  he  suggested  Fermi 
or  Langevin  as  possible  substitutes  (Pais  1982,  p.  432).  For  a  while  it  was 
not  clear  whether  Langevin  (who  was  anyway  a  member  of  the  scientific 
committee)  would  be  able  to  come,  since  he  was  in  Argentina  over  the 
summer  and  due  to  go  on  to  Pasadena  from  there.  Ehrenfest  suggested 
F.  Perrin  instead,  in  rather  admiring  tones.  Langevin  was  needed  in  Paris 
in  October,  however,  and  was  able  to  come  to  the  conference.63  Finally, 
the  week  before  the  conference  started,  Lorentz  extended  the  invitation 
to  Irving  Langmuir,64  who  would  happen  to  be  in  Brussels  at  the  time 
of  the  conference  @ 

Lorentz  sent  most  of  the  informal  invitations  around  January  1927. 65 
In  May  1927,  he  sent  to  Lefebure  the  list  of  all  the  people  he  had  'provi- 
sionally invited',66  including  all  the  members  of  the  scientific  committee 
and  the  prospective  invitees  as  listed  above  by  Verschaffelt  (that  is, 

a  A  few  days  later,  Guye  suggested  also  Auger  as  a  possible  substitute  for  Wilson.56 
a  To  Langmuir  we  owe  a  fascinating  'home  movie'  of  the  conference;  see  the  report 
in  the  AIP  Bulletin  of  Physics  News,  number  724  (2005). 


1.4  Further  details  of  planning 


19 


as  yet  without  Pauli  and  Dirac).  All  had  already  replied  and  accep- 
ted, except  Deslandres  (who  eventually  replied  much  later  declining  the 
invitation67).  Around  early  July,  Lorentz  invited  the  physicists  from  the 
university,68  and  presumably  sent  a  new  invitation  to  W.  H.  Bragg,  who 
thanked  him  but  declined.69  Formal  letters  of  confirmation  were  sent 
out  by  Lefebure  shortly  before  the  conference.70 

Around  June  1927,  Lorentz  wrote  to  the  planned  speakers  inviting 
them  in  the  name  of  the  scientific  committee  to  contribute  written 
reports,  to  reach  him  preferably  by  1  September.  The  general  guidelines 
were:  to  focus  on  one's  own  work,  without  mathematical  details,  but 
rather  so  that  'the  principles  are  highlighted  as  clearly  as  possible,  and 
the  open  questions  as  well  as  the  connections  [Zusammenhange]  and 
contrasts  are  clarified'.  The  material  in  the  reports  did  not  have  to  be 
unpublished,  and  a  bibliography  would  be  welcome.71  Compton  wrote 
that  he  would  aim  to  deliver  his  manuscipt  by  20  August,  de  Broglie 
easily  before  the  end  of  August,  Bragg,  as  well  as  Born  and  Heisenberg, 
by  1  September,  and  Schrodinger  presumably  only  in  the  second  half  of 
September.72  (For  further  details  of  the  correspondence  between  some 
of  the  authors  and  Lorentz,  see  the  relevant  chapters  below.) 

The  written  reports  were  to  be  sent  to  all  participants  in  advance  of 
the  conferenceE  De  Broglie's,  which  had  been  written  directly  in  French, 
was  sent  by  Lorentz  to  the  publishers,  Gauthier-Villars  in  Paris,  before 
he  left  for  the  Como  meeting.  They  hoped  to  send  35  proofs  to  Lorentz 
by  the  end  of  September.  In  the  meantime,  Verschaffelt  and  Lorentz's 
son  had  the  remaining  reports  mimeographed  by  the  'Holland  Typing 
Office'  in  Amsterdam,  and  Verschaffelt  with  the  help  of  a  student  added 
in  the  formulas  by  hand,  managing  to  mail  on  time  to  the  participants  at 
least  Compton's  and  Born  and  Heisenberg's  reports,  if  not  all  of  them.74 
Lorentz  had  further  written  to  all  speakers  (except  Compton)  to  ask 
them  to  bring  reprints  of  their  papers.75 

Late  during  planning,  a  slight  problem  emerged,  namely  an  unfortuna- 
te overlap  of  the  Brussels  conference  with  the  festivities  for  the  centenary 
of  Fresnel  in  Paris,  to  be  officially  opened  Thursday  27  October.  Lorentz 
informed  Lefebure  of  the  clash  writing  from  Naples  after  the  Como 
meeting:  neither  the  date  of  the  conference  could  be  changed  nor  that  of 
the  Fresnel  celebrations,  which  had  been  fixed  by  the  French  President. 
The  problem  was  compounded  by  the  fact  that  de  Broglie  had  accepted 

a  Mimeographed  copies  of  Bragg's,  Born  and  Heisenberg's  and  Schrodinger's  reports 
are  to  be  found  in  the  Richardson  Collection,  Harry  Ransom  Humanities  Research 
Center,  University  of  Texas  at  Austin.73 


20  Historical  introduction 

to  give  a  lecture  to  the  Societe  de  Physique  on  the  occasion^]  Lorentz 
suggested  the  compromise  solution  of  a  general  invitation  to  attend  the 
celebrations.  Those  who  wished  to  participate  could  travel  to  Paris  on 
27  October,  returning  to  Brussels  the  next  day,  when  sessions  would 
be  resumed  in  the  afternoon.  This  was  the  solution  that  was  indeed 
adopted.77 


1.5  The  Solvay  meeting 

The  fifth  Solvay  conference  took  place  from  24  to  29  October  1927  in 
Brussels.  As  on  previous  occasions,  the  participants  stayed  at  the  Hotel 
Britannique,  where  a  dinner  invitation  from  Armand  Solvay  awaited 
them.78  Other  meals  were  going  to  be  taken  at  the  institute,  which  was 
housed  in  the  building  of  the  Institute  of  Physiology  in  the  Pare  Leopold; 
catering  for  50-55  people  had  been  arranged.79  The  participants  were 
guests  of  the  administrative  commission  and  all  travel  expenses  within 
Europe  were  met.80  From  the  evening  of  23  October  onwards,  three  seats 
were  reserved  in  a  box  at  the  Theatre  de  la  Monnaie.81 

The  first  session  of  the  conference  started  at  10:00  on  Monday  24 
October.  A  tentative  reconstruction  of  the  schedule  of  the  conference  is 
as  follows.82  We  assume  that  the  talks  were  given  in  the  order  they  were 
described  in  the  plans  and  printed  in  the  volume,  and  that  the  reception 
by  the  university  on  the  Tuesday  continued  throughout  the  morning.  It 
is  clear  that  the  general  discussion  extended  over  at  least  two  days,  from 
the  fact  that  Dirac  in  his  main  contribution  (p.  I490[)  refers  explicitly  to 
Bohr's  comments  of  the  day  beforeQ 

•  Monday  24  October,  morning:  W.  L.  Bragg's  report,  followed  by  dis- 
cussion. 

•  Monday  24  October,  afternoon:  A.  H.  Compton's  report,  followed  by 
discussion. 

a  In  Lorentz's  letter,  the  date  of  de  Broglie's  lecture  is  mentioned  as  28  October,  but 
the  official  invitations  state  that  it  was  Zeeman  who  lectured  then,  and  de  Broglie 
the  next  evening,  after  the  end  of  the  Solvay  conference.  A  report  on  de  Broglie's 
lecture,  which  was  entitled  'Fresnel's  ceuvre  and  the  current  development  of 
physics',  was  published  by  Guye  in  the  Journal  de  Geneve  of  16  and  18  April 
1928. 76 

a  In  a  letter  to  Verschaffelt,  Kramers  refers  to  'the  general  discussion  of  Thursday', 
but  that  in  fact  was  the  day  of  the  Fresnel  celebrations  in  Paris.  The  photograph 
of  Lorentz  included  in  the  volume,  according  to  the  caption,  was  also  taken  on  that 
day.  Since  the  celebrations  opened  only  at  8:30pm,  it  is  conceivable  that  there  was 
a  first  discussion  session  on  Thursday  morning.  Pelseneer  states,  however,  that 
sessions  were  suspended  for  the  whole  day.83 


1.5  The  Solvay  meeting 


21 


•  Tuesday  25  October,  starting  9:00  a.m.:  reception  offered  by  the  ULB. 

•  Tuesday  25  October,  afternoon:  L.  de  Broglie's  report,  followed  by 
discussion. 

•  Wednesday  26  October,  morning:  M.  Born  and  W.  Heisenberg's  re- 
port, followed  by  discussion. 

•  Wednesday  26  October,  afternoon:  E.  Schrodinger's  report,  followed 
by  discussion. 

•  Thursday  27  October,  all  day:  travel  to  Paris  and  centenary  of  Fres- 
nelE 

•  Friday  28  October,  morning:  return  to  Brussels. 

•  Friday  28  October,  afternoon:  general  discussion. 

•  Saturday  29  October,  morning:  general  discussion]]  followed  by  lunch 
with  the  King  and  Queen  of  the  Belgians. 

•  Saturday  29  October,  evening:  dinner  offered  by  Armand  Solvay. 

The  languages  used  were  presumably  English,  German  and  French. 
Schrodinger  had  volunteered  to  give  his  talk  in  English]]  while  Born  had 
suggested  that  he  and  Heisenberg  could  provide  additional  explanations 
in  English  (while  he  thought  that  neither  of  them  knew  French).86  The 
phrasing  used  by  Born  referred  to  who  should  'explain  orally  the  contents 
of  the  report',  suggesting  that  the  speakers  did  not  present  the  exact  or 
full  text  of  the  reports  as  printed. 

Multiplicity  of  languages  had  long  been  a  characteristic  of  the  Sol- 
vay conferences.  A  well-known  letter  by  Ehrenfest87  tells  us  of  '[p]oor 
Lorentz  as  interpreter  between  the  British  and  the  French  who  were 
absolutely  unable  to  understand  each  other.  Summarising  Bohr.  And 
Bohr  responding  with  polite  despair'  (as  quoted  in  Bohr  1985,  p.  38)  El 

On  the  last  day  of  the  conference,  Ehrenfest  went  to  the  blackboard 
and  evoked  the  image  of  the  tower  of  Babel  (presumably  in  a  more 

a  Most  of  the  participants  at  the  Solvay  conference,  with  the  exception  of  Knudsen, 
Dirac,  Ehrenfest,  Planck,  Schrodinger,  Henriot,  Piccard  and  Herzen,  travelled  to 
Paris  to  attend  the  inauguration  of  the  celebrations,  in  the  grand  amphitheatre  of 
the  Sorbonne.84 

b  The  final  session  of  the  conference  also  included  a  homage  to  Ernest  Solvay's 
widow.85 

c  Note  that  Schrodinger  was  fluent  in  English  from  childhood,  his  mother  and  aunts 
being  half- English  (Moore  1989,  chapter  1). 

d  Both  W.  H.  Bragg  and  Planck  deplored  in  letters  to  Lorentz  that  they  were  very 
poor  linguists.  Indeed,  in  a  letter  explaining  in  more  detail  why  he  would  not 
participate  in  the  conference,  W.  H.  Bragg  wrote:  'I  find  it  impossible  to  follow 
the  discussions  even  though  you  so  often  try  to  make  it  easy  for  us',  and  Planck 
was  in  doubt  about  coming,  particularly  because  of  the  language  difficulties.88 


22 


Historical  introduction 


metaphorical  sense  than  the  mere  multiplicity  of  spoken  languages), 
writing: 

And  they  said  one  to  another:  ....  Go  to,  let  us  build  us  ....  a  tower,  whose  top 
may  reach  unto  heaven;  and  let  us  make  us  a  name  ....  And  the  Lord  said:  .... 
Go  to,  let  us  go  down,  and  there  confound  their  language,  that  they  may  not 
understand  one  another's  speech.  (Genesis  11:  3-7,  reported  by  Pelseneer,  his 
emphasifl) 

Informal  discussions  at  the  conference  must  have  been  plentiful,  but 
information  about  them  has  to  be  gathered  from  other  sources.  Famous- 
ly, Einstein  and  Bohr  engaged  in  discussions  that  were  described  in  detail 
in  later  recollections  by  Bohr  (1949),  and  vividly  recalled  by  Ehrenfest 
within  days  of  the  conference  in  the  well-known  letter  quoted  above  (see 
also  chapter  1X2]) . 

Little  known,  if  at  all,  is  another  reference  by  Ehrenfest  to  the  discus- 
sions between  Bohr  and  Einstein,  which  appears  to  relate  more  directly 
to  the  issues  raised  by  Einstein  in  the  general  discussion: 

Bohr  had  given  a  very  pretty  argument  in  a  conversation  with  Einstein, 
that  one  could  not  hope  ever  to  master  many-particle  problems  with  three- 
dimensional  Schrodinger  machinery.  He  said  something  like  the  following  (mo- 
re or  less!!!!!!):  a  wave  packet  can  never  simultaneously  determine  EXACTLY 
the  position  and  the  velocity  of  a  particle.  Thus  if  one  has  for  instance  TWO 
particles,  then  they  cannot  possibly  be  represented  in  three-dimensional  space 
such  that  one  can  simultaneously  represent  exactly  their  kinetic  energy  and  the 

potential  energy  OF  THEIR  INTERACTION.  Therefore   (What  comes 

after  this  therefore  I  already  cannot  reproduce  properly.)  In  the  multidimen- 
sional representation  instead  the  potential  energy  of  the  interaction  appears 
totally  sharp  in  the  relevant  coefficients  of  the  wave  equation  and  one  does  [?] 
not  get  to  see  the  kinetic  energy  at  all.90 


1.6  The  editing  of  the  proceedings 

The  editing  of  the  proceedings  of  the  fifth  Solvay  conference  was  largely 
carried  out  by  Verschaffelt,  who  reported  regularly  to  Lorentz  and  to 
Lefebure.  During  the  last  months  of  1927  Lorentz  was  busy  writing  up 
the  lecture  he  had  given  at  the  Como  meeting  in  September.91  He  then 
died  suddenly  on  4  February,  before  the  editing  work  was  complete. 

The  translation  of  the  reports  into  French  was  carried  out  after  the 
conference,  except  for  de  Broglie's  report  which,  as  mentioned,  was 

a  This  may  have  been  Ehrenfest's  own  emphasis.  Note  that,  if  not  necessarily  present 
at  the  sessions,  Pelseneer  had  some  connection  with  the  conference,  having  taken 
Lorentz's  photograph  reproduced  in  the  proceedings.89 


1.6  The  editing  of  the  proceedings 


23 


written  directly  in  French.  From  Verschaffelt's  letters  we  gather  that 
by  6  January  1928  all  the  reports  had  been  translated,  Bragg's  and 
Compton's  had  been  sent  to  the  publishers,  and  Born  and  Heisenberg's 
and  Schrodinger's  were  to  be  sent  on  that  day  or  the  next.  Several  proofs 
were  back  by  the  beginning  of  March.92 

Lorentz  had  envisaged  preparing  with  Verschaffelt  an  edited  version  of 
the  discussions  from  notes  taken  during  the  conference,  and  sending  the 
edited  version  to  the  speakers  at  proof  stageQ  In  fact,  stenographed  notes 
appear  to  have  been  taken,  typed  up  and  sent  to  the  speakers,  who  for  the 
most  part  used  them  to  prepare  drafts  of  their  contributions.  From  these, 
Verschaffelt  then  edited  the  final  version,  with  some  help  from  Kramers 
(who  specifically  completed  two  of  Lorentz's  contributions).93  A  copy  of 
the  galley  proofs  of  the  general  discussion,  dated  1  June  1928,  survives 
in  the  Bohr  archives  in  Copenhagen,94  and  includes  some  contributions 
that  appear  to  have  been  still  largely  unedited  at  that  timeQ 

By  January,  the  editing  of  the  discussions  was  proceeding  well,  and 
at  the  beginning  of  March  it  was  almost  completed.  Some  contributions, 
however,  were  still  missing,  most  notably  Bohr's.  The  notes  sent  by  Ver- 
schaffelt had  many  gaps;  Bohr  wanted  Kramers's  advice  and  help  with 
the  discussion  contributions,  and  travelled  to  Utrecht  for  this  purpose 
at  the  beginning  of  March.95  At  the  end  of  March,  Kramers  sent  Ver- 
schaffelt the  edited  version  of  Bohr's  contributions  to  the  discussion  after 
Compton's  report  (pp.  13591  and  I369j)  and  after  Born  and  Heisenberg's 
report  (p.  I443[l .  remarking  that  these  were  all  of  Bohr's  contributions  to 
the  discussions  during  the  first  three  days  of  the  conference]! 

In  contrast,  material  on  Bohr's  contributions  to  the  general  discussion 
survives  only  in  the  form  of  notes  in  the  Bohr  archives  0  (Some  notes 
by  Richardson  also  relate  to  Bohr's  contributions.97)  A  translation  of 
version  of  the  Como  lecture  for  Naturwissenschaften  (Bohr  1928)  was 
included  instead,  reprinted  on  a  par  with  the  other  reports,  and  accom- 
panied by  the  following  footnote  (p.  215  of  the  published  proceedings): 

This  article,  which  is  the  translation  of  a  note  published  very  recently  in 
Naturwissenschaften,  vol.  16,  1928,  p.  245,  has  been  added  at  the  author's 

a  According  to  D.  Devriese,  curator  of  the  IIPCS  archives,  the  original  notes  have 
not  survived. 

b  We  have  reproduced  some  of  this  material  in  the  endnotes  to  the  general  discussion, 
c  Note  that  Bohr  also  asked  some  brief  questions  after  Schrodinger's  report 

(p.  [468}.  Kramers  further  writes  that  Bohr  suggested  to  'omit  the  whole  final 

Born-Heisenberg  discussion  (Nr.  18-23)  and  equally  Fowler's  remark  9'.  Again, 

thanks  to  Mark  van  Atten  for  help  with  this  letter.96 
d  This  material  is  not  microfilmed  in  AHQP.  See  also  Bohr  (1985,  pp.  35-7,  100  and 

478-9). 


24 


Historical  introduction 


request  to  replace  the  exposition  of  his  ideas  that  he  gave  in  the  course  of  the 
following  general  discussion.  It  is  essentially  the  reproduction  of  a  talk  on  the 
current  state  of  quantum  theory  that  was  given  in  Como  on  16  September 
1927,  on  the  occasion  of  the  jubilee  festivities  in  honour  of  Volta. 

The  last  remaining  material  was  sent  to  Gauthier-Villars  sometime  in 
September  1928,  and  the  volume  was  finally  published  in  early  December 
of  that  year.98 


1.7  Conclusion 

The  fifth  Solvay  conference  was  by  any  standards  an  important  and 
memorable  event.  On  this  point  all  participants  presumably  agreed, 
as  shown  by  numerous  letters,  such  as  Ehrenfest's  letter  quoted  above 
(reproduced  in  Bohr  1985),  Heisenberg's  letter  to  Lefebure  at  the  head  of 
this  chapter,  or  various  other  letters  of  thanks  addressed  to  the  organisers 
after  the  conference:99 

I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  of  thanking  you  for  your  kind  hospitality, 
and  telling  you  how  much  I  enjoyed  this  particular  Conference.  I  think  it  has 
been  the  most  memorable  one  which  I  have  attended  for  the  subject  which 
was  discussed  was  of  such  vital  interest  and  I  learned  so  much.  (W.  L.  Bragg 
to  Armand  Solvay,  3  November  1927) 

It  was  the  most  stimulating  scientific  meeting  I  have  ever  taken  part  in. 
(Max  Born  to  Charles  Lefebure,  8  November  1927) 

Perceptions  of  the  significance  of  the  conference  differed  from  each  other, 
however.  In  the  official  history,  the  fifth  Solvay  conference  went  down 
(perhaps  together  with  the  Como  meeting)  as  the  occasion  on  which 
the  interpretational  issues  were  finally  clarified.  This  was  presumably 
a  genuine  sentiment  on  the  part  of  Bohr,  Heisenberg  and  the  other 
physicists  of  the  Copenhagen-Gottingen  school.  We  find  it  explicitly  as 
early  as  1929: 

In  relating  the  development  of  the  quantum  theory,  one  must  in  particular 
not  forget  the  discussions  at  the  Solvay  conference  in  Brussels  in  1927,  chaired 
by  Lorentz.  Through  the  possibility  of  exchange  [Aussprache]  between  the 
representatives  of  different  lines  of  research,  this  conference  has  contributed 
extraordinarily  to  the  clarification  of  the  physical  foundations  of  the  quantum 

theory;  it  forms  so  to  speak  the  outward  completion  of  the  quantum  theory  

(Heisenberg  1929,  p.  495) 

On  the  other  hand,  the  conference  was  also  described  (by  Langevin) 
as  the  one  where  'the  confusion  of  ideas  reached  its  peak'.100  From 
a  distance  of  almost  80  years,  the  beginnings  of  a  more  dispassionate 


1.7  Conclusion 


25 


evaluation  should  be  possible.  In  the  following  chapters,  we  shall  revisit 
the  fifth  Solvay  conference,  focussing  in  particular  on  the  background 
and  contributions  relating  to  the  three  main  'lines  of  research'  into 
quantum  theory  represented  there:  de  Broglie's  pilot-wave  theory,  Born 
and  Heisenberg's  quantum  mechanics  and  Schrodinger's  wave  mechanics. 


26 


Notes  to  pp.  3-9 


Archival  notes 

1  Handwritten  remark  (by  Ehrenfest)  in  the  margin  of  Lorentz  to 
Ehrenfest,  29  March  1926,  AHQP-EHR-23  (in  Dutch). 

2  Heisenberg  to  Lefebure,  19  December  [1927],  IIPCS  2685  (in  German). 

3  AHQP-LTZ-12,  talk  X  23,  'Ernest  Solvay',  dated  28  September  1914  (in 
English).  Cf.  also  the  French  version  of  the  same,  X  10.  (The  two  pages  of 
the  latter  are  in  separate  places  on  the  microfilm.) 

4  Pelseneer,  J.,  Historique  des  Instituts  Internationaux  de  Physique  et  de 
Chimie  Solvay  depuis  leur  fondation  jusqu'd  la  deuxieme  guerre  mondiale, 
[1962],  103  pp.,  AHQP-58,  section  1  (hereafter  referred  to  simply  as 
'Pelseneer'). 

5  Planck  to  Nernst,  11  June  1910,  Pelseneer,  p.  7  (in  German). 

6  Lorentz  to  Solvay,  4  January  1912,  Pelseneer,  pp.  20-26  (in  French).  See 
also  the  reply,  Solvay  to  Lorentz,  10  January  1912,  AHQP-LTZ-12  (in 
French) . 

7  Lorentz  to  Solvay,  6  March  1912,  Pelseneer,  p.  27  (in  French). 

8  Heger  to  Lorentz,  16  February  1912,  AHQP-LTZ-11  (in  French). 

9  Einstein  to  Lorentz,  16  August  1923,  AHQP-LTZ-7  (in  German). 

10  Van  Aubel  to  Lorentz,  16  April,  16  May  and  19  July  1923, 
AHQP-LTZ-11  (in  French). 

11  Lorentz  to  Solvay,  10  January  1919,  Pelseneer,  p.  37  (in  French). 

12  Lorentz  to  Einstein,  14  March  1926,  AHQP-86  (in  German). 

13  Lefebure  to  Lorentz,  12  February  1926,  AHQP-LTZ-12  (in  French). 

14  Cf.  Lefebure  to  Lorentz,  12  February  1926,  AHQP-LTZ-12  (in  French). 

15  Letter  by  Lorentz,  7  January  1919,  Pelseneer,  pp.  35-6  (in  French),  two 
letters  from  Planck  to  Lorentz,  1915,  AHQP-LTZ-12  (in  German),  Planck 
to  Lorentz,  March  1916,  Pelseneer,  pp.  34-5  (in  German),  and  Planck  to 
Lorentz,  5  December  1923,  AHQP-LTZ-9  (in  German). 

16  From  Lefebure  [possibly  a  copy  for  Lorentz],  1  April  1926,  AHQP-LTZ-12 
(in  French).  Obituary  of  Tassel,  L'Eventail,  15  October  1922, 
AHQP-LTZ-13  (in  French). 

17  Cf.  Lefebure  to  Lorentz,  6  April  1926,  AHQP-LTZ-12  (in  French). 

18  Lorentz  to  Einstein,  6  April  1926,  AHQP-86  (in  German). 

19  Einstein  to  Lorentz,  14  April  1926  and  1  May  1927,  AHQP-LTZ-11  (in 
German). 

20  Lorentz  to  Einstein,  28  April  1926,  AHQP-86  (in  German). 

21  Compare  the  invitation  of  Lorentz  to  Bohr,  7  June  1926,  AHQP-BSC-13 
(in  English),  and  the  replies  of  Bohr  to  Lorentz,  24  June  1926, 
AHQP-LTZ-11  (in  English),  Planck  to  Lorentz,  13  June  1926, 
AHQP-LTZ-8  (in  German),  Born  to  Lorentz,  19  June  1926, 
AHQP-LTZ-11  (in  German),  and  Heisenberg  to  Lorentz,  4  July  1926, 
AHQP-LTZ-12  (in  German). 

22  Van  Aubel  to  Lefebure,  6  October  1927,  IIPCS  2545  (in  French),  with 
Lefebure's  handwritten  comment. 

23  Lefebure  to  Lorentz,  14  October  1927,  IIPCS  2534,  and  15  October  1927, 
IIPCS  2536,  telegramme  Lorentz  to  Lefebure,  15  October  1927,  IIPCS 
2535,  and  Lefebure  to  the  King,  19  October  1927,  IIPCS  2622  (all  in 
French). 

24  Lorentz  to  Solvay,  10  January  1919,  Pelseneer,  p.  37  (in  French). 

25  There  is  a  large  amount  of  relevant  correspondence  in  AHQP-LTZ. 


Notes  to  pp.  9-18 


27 


26  Lorentz  to  Ehrenfest,  29  March  1926,  AHQP-EHR-23  (in  Dutch),  with 
Ehrenfest's  handwritten  comments. 

27  Ehrenfest  to  Lorentz,  30  March  1926,  AHQP-LTZ-11  (in  German). 

28  Lorentz  to  Bohr,  7  June  1926,  AHQP-BSC-13,  section  3  (in  English), 
Lorentz  to  Schrodinger,  21  January  1927,  AHQP-41,  section  9  (in 
German). 

29  Lorentz  to  Einstein,  6  April  1926,  AHQP-86  (in  German  and  French). 

30  Verschaffelt  to  Lefebure,  8  April  1926,  IIPCS  2573  (in  French). 

31  Einstein  to  Lorentz,  12  April  1926,  AHQP-LTZ-11  (in  German). 

32  See  for  instance  the  catalogue  of  Lorentz's  manuscripts  in  AHQP-LTZ-11. 

33  See  also  Lorentz  to  Schrodinger,  21  January  and  17  June  1927, 
AHQP-41,  section  9  (in  German). 

34  Einstein  to  Lorentz,  1  May  1926,  AHQP-LTZ-11  (in  German). 

35  Einstein  to  Lorentz,  22  June  1926,  AHQP-LTZ-8  (in  German). 

36  Einstein  to  Lorentz,  16  February  1927,  AHQP-LTZ-11  (in  German). 

37  Enclosed  with  Lorentz  to  Ehrenfest,  3  June  [1927,  erroneously  amended 
to  1925],  AHQP-EHR-23  (in  Dutch). 

38  Lorentz  to  Dirac,  9  June  1927,  AHQP-LTZ-8  (in  English). 

39  Cf.  Born  to  Lorentz,  23  June  1927,  AHQP-LTZ-11  (in  German). 

40  Lorentz  to  Lefebure,  27  August  1927,  IIPCS  2532 A/B  (in  French).  [There 
appears  to  be  a  further  item  also  numbered  2532.] 

41  Dirac  to  Lorentz,  13  September  1927,  AHQP-LTZ-11  (in  English). 

42  Cf.  de  Broglie  to  Lorentz,  22  June  1927,  AHQP-LTZ-11  (in  French),  and 
Ehrenfest  to  Lorentz,  14  June  1927,  AHQP-EHR-23  (in  Dutch  and 
German). 

43  W.  L.  Bragg  to  Lorentz,  7  February  1927,  AHQP-LTZ-11  (in  English). 

44  Cf.  also  W.  L.  Bragg  to  Lorentz,  27  June  1927,  AHQP-LTZ-11  (in 
English). 

45  Lorentz  to  Schrodinger,  17  June  1927,  AHQP-41,  section  9  (in  German). 

46  Einstein  to  Lorentz,  16  December  1924,  AHQP-LTZ-7  (in  German). 

47  Einstein  to  Lorentz,  12  April  1926,  AHQP-LTZ-11,  Lorentz  to  Einstein, 
28  April  1926,  AHQP-86,  and  Einstein  to  Lorentz,  1  May  1926, 
AHQP-LTZ-11  (all  in  German). 

48  'Bestimmt  Schrodingers  Wellenmechanik  die  Bewegung  eines  Systems 
vollstandig  oder  nur  im  Sinne  der  Statistik?',  AEA  2-100.00  (in  German), 
available  on-line  at 

http:/ /www.alberteinstein.info/db/ViewDetails.do?DocumentID=34338  . 

49  Heisenberg  to  Einstein,  19  May  1927,  AEA  12-173.00,  and  10  June  1927, 
AEA  12-174.00  (both  in  German). 

50  Lorentz  to  Schrodinger,  17  June  1927,  AHQP-41,  section  9  (in  German). 

51  W.  H.  Bragg  to  Lorentz,  11  May  1927,  AHQP-LTZ-11  (in  English). 

52  Tassel  to  Verschaffelt,  24  February  1921,  AHQP-LTZ-13  (in  French). 

53  Lorentz  to  Ehrenfest,  29  March  1926,  AHQP-EHR-23  (in  Dutch). 

54  Ehrenfest  to  Lorentz,  30  March  1926,  AHQP-LTZ-11  (in  German). 

55  Verschaffelt  to  Lefebure,  8  April  1926,  IIPCS  2573  (in  French). 

56  Guye  to  Lorentz,  14  April  1926,  AHQP-LTZ-8  (in  French). 

57  Cf.  for  instance  Lorentz  to  Schrodinger,  21  January  1927,  AHQP-41, 
section  9  (in  German). 

58  Lefebure  to  Lorentz,  22  October  1927,  AHQP-LTZ-12  (in  French). 

59  Lorentz  to  Einstein,  28  April  1926,  AHQP-86  (in  German),  Lorentz  to 
Lefebure,  9  October  1927,  IIPCS,  2530A/B  (in  French). 


28 


Notes  to  pp.  18-19 


60  Lorentz  to  Einstein,  28  April  1926,  AHQP-86  (in  German),  Einstein  to 
Lorentz,  1  May  1926,  AHQP-LTZ-11  (in  German). 

61  For  the  latter,  cf.  also  Brillouin  to  Lorentz,  20  August  1927, 
AHQP-LTZ-11  (in  French). 

62  Lorentz  to  Einstein,  30  January  1927,  AHQP-86  (in  German),  Einstein  to 
Lorentz,  16  February  1927,  AHQP-LTZ-11  (in  German),  Richardson  to 
Lorentz,  19  February  1927,  AHQP-LTZ-12  (in  English). 

63  Brillouin  to  Lorentz,  20  August  1927,  AHQP-LTZ-11  (in  French), 
Ehrenfest  to  Lorentz  18  August  1927,  AHQP-EHR-23  (in  German). 

64  Telegramme  Lorentz  to  Lefebure,  19  October  1927,  IIPCS  2541  (in 
French),  with  Lefebure's  note:  'Oui'. 

65  Lorentz  to  Brillouin,  15  December  1926,  AHQP-LTZ-12  (in  French), 
Lorentz  to  Ehrenfest,  18  January  1927,  AHQP-EHR-23  (in  Dutch), 
Lorentz  to  Schrodinger,  21  January  1927,  AHQP-41,  section  9  (in 
German);  compare  various  other  replies  to  Lorentz's  invitation,  in 
AHQP-LTZ-11,  AHQP-LTZ-12  and  AHQP-LTZ-13:  Brillouin,  8  January 
1927  (in  French),  de  Broglie,  8  January  1927  (in  French),  W.  L.  Bragg,  7 
February  1927  (in  English),  Wilson,  11  February  1927  (in  English), 
Kramers,  14  February  1927  (in  German),  Debye,  24  February  1927  (in 
Dutch),  Compton,  3  April  1927  (in  English)  [late  because  he  had  been 
away  for  two  months  'in  the  Orient']. 

66  Lorentz  to  Lefebure,  21  May  1927,  IIPCS  2521A  (in  French). 

67  Deslandres  to  Lorentz,  19  July  1927,  AHQP-LTZ-11  (in  French). 

68  See  the  letters  of  acceptance  to  Lorentz:  De  Donder,  8  July  1927, 
AHQP-LTZ-11,  Henriot,  10  July  1927,  AHQP-LTZ-12,  Piccard,  2 
October  1927,  AHQP-LTZ-12  (all  in  French). 

69  W.  H.  Bragg  to  Lorentz,  12  and  17  July  1927,  AHQP-LTZ-11  (in 
English). 

70  Copies  in  AHQP-LTZ-12  and  IIPCS  2543.  Various  replies:  IIPCS 
2544-51,  2553-6,  2558,  2560-3. 

71  Cf.  Lorentz  to  Schrodinger,  17  June  1927,  AHQP-41,  section  9  (in 
German). 

72  Compare  the  answers  by  Bragg,  27  June  1927,  and  by  Compton,  7  July 
1927,  both  AHQP-LTZ-11  (in  English),  and  the  detailed  ones  by  de 
Broglie,  27  June  1927,  AHQP-LTZ-11  (in  French)  and  by  Born,  23  June 
1927,  AHQP-LTZ-11  (in  German);  also  Schrodinger  to  Lorentz,  23  June 
1927,  AHQP-LTZ-13  (original  with  Schrodinger's  corrections),  and 
AHQP-41  section  9  (carbon  copy)  (in  German). 

73  Microfilmed  in  AHQP-RDN,  documents  M-0059  (Bragg,  catalogued  as 
'unidentified  author'),  M-0309  (Born  and  Heisenberg,  with  seven  pages  of 
notes  by  Richardson)  and  M-1354  (Schrodinger). 

74  See  in  particular  the  already  quoted  Lorentz  to  Lefebure,  27  August 
1927,  IIPCS  2532 A/B  (in  French),  as  well  as  Lorentz  to  Lefebure,  23 
September  1927,  IIPCS  2523A/B,  and  4  October  1927,  IIPCS  2528  (both 
in  French),  Gauthiers-Villars  to  Lefebure,  16  September  1927,  IIPCS 
2755  (in  French),  Verschaffelt  to  Lorentz,  6  October  1927,  AHQP-LTZ-13 
(in  Dutch),  de  Broglie  to  Lorentz,  29  August  1927,  AHQP-LTZ-8,  and  11 
October  1927,  AHQP-LTZ-11  (both  in  French),  and  Verschaffelt  to 
Lefebure,  15  October  1927,  IIPCS  2756  (in  French). 

75  Lorentz  to  Ehrenfest,  13  October  1927,  AHQP-EHR-23  (in  Dutch).  Sec 
also  Born  to  Lorentz,  11  October  1927  AHQP-LTZ-11  (in  German),  de 


Notes  to  pp.  19-24 


29 


Broglie  to  Lorentz,  11  October  1927,  AHQP-LTZ-11  (in  French),  Planck 
to  Lefebure,  17  October  1927,  IIPCS  2558,  and  Richardson  to  Lefebure, 
IIPCS  2561. 

76  'Une  crise  dans  la  physique  moderne  I  &  IF,  IIPCS  2750-51  (in  French). 

77  Lorentz  to  Lefebure,  29  September  1927,  IIPCS  2523A/B,  Brillouin  to 
Lorentz,  11  October  1927,  AHQP-LTZ-11,  Fondation  Solvay  to  Lefebure, 
IIPCS  2582.  Invitation:  IIPCS  2615  and  2619,  AHPQ-LTZ-8.  Replies: 
IIPCS  2617  and  2618.  (All  documents  in  French.) 

78  IIPCS  2530A/B,  2537. 

79  IIPCS  2533,  2586A/B/C/D/E  (the  proposed  menus  from  the  Taverne 
Royale),  2587A/B. 

80  Lorentz  to  Schrodinger,  21  January  1927,  AHQP-41,  section  9  (in 
German). 

81  IIPCS  2340. 

82  For  the  time  and  place  of  the  first  session,  see  IIPCS  2523 A/B.  For  the 
reception  at  ULB,  see  IIPCS  2540  and  2629.  There  is  a  seating  plan  for 
the  lunch  with  the  royal  couple,  IIPCS  2627.  For  the  dinner  with  Armand 
Solvay,  see  IIPCS  2533,  2624  and  2625.  See  also  Pelseneer,  pp.  49-50. 

83  See  Kramers  to  Verschaffelt,  23  March  1928,  AHQP-28  (in  Dutch),  and 
Pelseneer,  p.  50. 

84  IIPCS  2621. 

85  See  AHQP-LTZ-12  (draft),  and  presumably  IIPCS  2667. 

86  Schrodinger  to  Lorentz,  23  June  1927,  AHQP-LTZ-13  and  AHQP-41, 
section  9  (in  German),  Lorentz  to  Schrodinger,  8  July  1927,  AHPQ-41, 
section  9  (in  German),  Born  to  Lorentz,  23  June  1927,  AHQP-LTZ-11  (in 
German). 

87  Ehrenfest  to  Goudsmit,  Uhlenbeck  and  Dieke,  3  November  1927, 
AHQP-61  (in  German). 

88  W.  H.  Bragg  to  Lorentz,  17  July  [1927],  AHQP-LTZ-11  (in  English), 
Planck  to  Lorentz,  2  February  1927,  AHQP-LTZ-8  (in  German). 

89  See  Pelseneer,  pp.  50-51. 

90  Ehrenfest  to  Kramers,  6  November  1927,  AHQP-9,  section  10  (in 
German).  The  words  'bekommt  man'  [?]  are  very  faint. 

91  Lorentz  to  Lefebure,  30  December  1927,  IIPCS  2670 A/B  (in  French). 

92  Verschaffelt  to  Lefebure,  6  January  1928,  IIPCS  2609,  2  March  1928, 
IIPCS  2610  (both  in  French). 

93  Lefebure  to  Lorentz,  [after  27  August  1927],  IIPCS  2524  (in  French), 
Bohr  to  Kramers,  17  February  1928,  AHQP-BSC-13  (in  Danish), 
Brillouin  to  Lorentz,  31  December  1927,  AHQP-LTZ-8  (in  French),  and 
Kramers  to  Verschaffelt,  28  March  1928,  AHQP-28,  section  4  (in  Dutch). 

94  Microfilmed  in  AHQP-BMSS-11,  section  5. 

95  Bohr  to  Kramers,  17  and  27  February  1928,  AHQP-BSC-13  (both  in 
Danish). 

96  Kramers  to  Verschaffelt,  28  March  1928,  AHQP-28,  section  4  (in  Dutch). 

97  Included  with  the  copy  of  Born  and  Heisenberg's  report  in  AHQP-RDN, 
document  M-0309. 

98  Gauthier-Villars  to  Verschaffelt,  6  December  1928,  IIPCS  2762  (in 
French),  and  Verschaffelt  to  Lefebure,  11  [December]  1928,  IIPCS  2761 
(in  French). 

99  IIPCS  2671  (in  English),  IIPCS  2672  (in  German). 

100  Quoted  in  Pelseneer,  p.  50. 


2 

De  Broglie's  pilot-wave  theory 


2.1  Background 

At  a  time  when  no  single  known  fact  supported  this 
theory,  Louis  de  Broglie  asserted  that  a  stream  of 
electrons  which  passed  through  a  very  small  hole  in  an 
opaque  screen  must  exhibit  the  same  phenomena  as  a 
light  ray  under  the  same  conditions. 

Prof.  C.  W.  Oseen,  Chairman  of  the  Nobel  Committee  for 
Physics,  presentation  speech,  12  December  1929  (Oseen 

1999) 

In  September  1923,  Prince  Louis  de  Brogli^B  made  one  of  the  most  asto- 
nishing predictions  in  the  history  of  theoretical  physics:  that  material 
bodies  would  exhibit  the  wave-like  phenomena  of  diffraction  and  inter- 
ference upon  passing  through  sufficiently  narrow  slits.  Like  Einstein's 
prediction  of  the  deflection  of  light  by  the  sun,  which  was  based  on  a 
reinterpretation  of  gravitational  force  in  terms  of  geometry,  de  Broglie's 
prediction  of  the  deflection  of  electron  paths  by  narrow  slits  was  made 
on  the  basis  of  a  fundamental  reappraisal  of  the  nature  of  forces  and  of 
dynamics.  De  Broglie  had  proposed  that  Newton's  first  law  of  motion  be 
abandoned,  and  replaced  by  a  new  postulate,  according  to  which  a  freely 
moving  body  follows  a  trajectory  that  is  orthogonal  to  the  surfaces  of 
equal  phase  of  an  associated  guiding  wave.  The  resulting  'de  Broglian  dy- 
namics' —  or  pilot-wave  theory  as  de  Broglie  later  called  it  —  was  a  new 
approach  to  the  theory  of  motion,  as  radical  as  Einstein's  interpretation 

a  The  de  Broglies  had  come  to  Prance  from  Italy  in  the  seventeenth  century,  the 
original  name  'Broglia'  eventually  being  changed  to  de  Broglie.  On  his  father's 
side,  de  Broglie's  ancestors  included  dukes,  princes,  ambassadors,  and  marshals  of 
France.  Nye  (1997)  considers  the  conflict  between  de  Broglie's  pursuit  of  science 
and  the  expectations  of  his  aristocratic  family.  For  a  biography  of  de  Broglie,  see 
Lochak  (1992). 


30 


2.1  Background 


31 


of  the  trajectories  of  falling  bodies  as  geodesies  of  a  curved  spacetime, 
and  as  far-reaching  in  its  implications.  In  1929  de  Broglie  received  the 
Nobel  Prize,  'for  his  discovery  of  the  wave  nature  of  electrons'. 

Strangely  enough,  however,  even  though  de  Broglie's  prediction  was 
confirmed  experimentally  a  few  years  later,  for  most  of  the  twentieth 
century  single-particle  diffraction  and  interference  were  routinely  cited 
as  evidence  against  de  Broglie's  ideas:  even  today,  some  textbooks  on 
quantum  mechanics  assert  that  such  interference  demonstrates  that  par- 
ticle trajectories  cannot  exist  in  the  quantum  domain  (see  section  . 
It  is  as  if  the  deflection  of  light  by  the  sun  had  come  to  be  widely 
regarded  as  evidence  against  Einstein's  general  theory  of  relativity.  This 
remarkable  misunderstanding  illustrates  the  extent  to  which  de  Broglie's 
work  in  the  1920s  has  been  underestimated,  misrepresented,  and  indeed 
largely  ignored,  not  only  by  physicists  but  also  by  historians. 

De  Broglie's  PhD  thesis  of  1924  is  of  course  recognised  as  a  landmark 
in  the  history  of  quantum  theory.  But  what  is  usually  remembered  about 
that  thesis  is  the  proposed  extension  of  Einstein's  wave-particle  duality 
from  light  to  matter,  with  the  formulas  E  =  hv  and  p  —  h/X  (relating 
energy  and  momentum  to  frequency  and  wavelength)  being  applied  to 
electrons  or  'matter  waves'.  Usually,  little  attention  is  paid  to  the  fact 
that  a  central  theme  of  de  Broglie's  thesis  was  the  construction  of  a  new 
form  of  dynamics,  in  which  classical  (Newtonian  or  Einsteinian)  laws 
are  abandoned,  and  replaced  by  new  laws  according  to  which  particle 
velocities  are  determined  by  guiding  waves,  in  a  specific  manner  that 
unifies  the  variational  principles  of  Maupertuis  and  Fermat.  Nor,  indeed, 
have  historians  paid  much  attention  to  de  Broglie's  later  and  more 
complete  form  of  pilot-wave  dynamics,  which  he  arrived  at  in  a  paper 
published  in  May  1927  in  Journal  de  Physique,  and  which  he  then 
presented  in  October  1927  at  the  fifth  Solvay  conference. 

Unlike  the  other  main  contributors  to  quantum  theory,  de  Broglie 
worked  in  relative  isolation,  having  little  contact  with  the  principal  rese- 
arch centres  in  Berlin,  Copenhagen,  Gottingen,  Cambridge  and  Munich. 
While  Bohr,  Heisenberg,  Born,  Schrodinger,  Pauli  and  others  visited 
each  other  frequently  and  corresponded  regularly,  de  Broglie  worked 
essentially  alone  in  Paris01n  France  at  the  time,  while  pure  mathematics 

a  In  his  typed  'Replies  to  Mr  Kuhn's  questions'  in  the  Archive  for  the  History  of 
Quantum  Physics,  de  Broglie  writes  (p.  7):  'Between  1919  and  1928,  I  worked 
very  much  in  isolation'  (emphasis  in  the  original).  Regarding  his  Ph.D.  thesis  de 
Broglie  recalled  (p.  9):  'I  worked  very  much  alone  and  almost  without  any  exchange 
of  ideas'. 


32 


De  Broglie's  pilot-wave  theory 


was  well  represented,  there  was  very  little  activity  in  theoretical  physics. 
In  addition,  after  the  first  world  war,  scientific  relations  with  Germany 
and  Austria  were  interrupted^  All  this  seems  to  have  suited  de  Broglie's 
rather  solitary  temperament.  De  Broglie's  isolation,  and  the  fact  that 
France  was  outside  the  mainstream  of  theoretical  physics,  may  account 
in  part  for  why  so  much  of  de  Broglie's  work  went  relatively  unnoticed 
at  the  time,  and  has  remained  largely  ignored  even  to  the  present  day. 

For  some  seventy  years,  the  physics  community  tended  to  believe 
either  that  'hidden- variables'  theories  like  de  Broglie's  were  impossible, 
or  that  such  theories  had  been  disproven  experimentally.  The  situation 
changed  considerably  in  the  1990s,  with  the  publication  of  textbooks 
presenting  quantum  mechanics  in  the  pilot-wave  formulation  (Bohm 
and  Hiley  1993;  Holland  1993).  Pilot- wave  theory  —  as  originated  by 
de  Broglie  in  1927,  and  elaborated  by  Bohm  25  years  later  (Bohm 
1952a, b)  —  is  now  accepted  as  an  alternative  (if  little  used)  formulation 
of  quantum  theory. 

Focussing  for  simplicity  on  the  nonrelativistic  quantum  theory  of  a  sy- 
stem of  N  (spinless)  particles  with  3- vector  positions  Xj  (i  —  1,  2, N), 
it  is  now  generally  agreed  that,  with  appropriate  initial  conditions,  quantum 
physics  may  be  accounted  for  by  the  deterministic  dynamics  defined  by 
two  differential  equations,  the  Schrodinger  equation 

2  —  1 

for  a  'pilot  wave'  \&(xi,X2,  ...,xjv,i)  in  configuration  space,  and  the  de 
Broglie  guidance  equation 

m^  =  (2) 

for  particle  trajectories  x,-(t),  where  the  phase  S(xi,  xa, xjy,  t)  is  lo- 
cally defined  by  S  =  Mm  In*  (so  that  *  =  |*|  e(l/n)s). 

This,  as  we  shall  see,  is  how  de  Broglie  presented  his  dynamics  in 
1927.  Bohm's  presentation  of  1952  was  somewhat  different.  If  one  takes 
the  time  derivative  of  |(2]),  then  using  ([I])  one  obtains  Newton's  law  of 
motion  for  acceleration 

mA  =  -Vi(V  +  Q)  ,  (3) 

a  For  more  details  on  de  Broglie's  situation  in  France  at  the  time,  see  Mehra  and 
Rechenberg  (1982a,  pp.  578-84). 


2.1  Background 


33 


where 


ft2  v?jjpj 

2m,  |*| 


(4) 


is  the  'quantum  potential'.  Bohm  regarded  ([3])  as  the  law  of  motion,  with 
$2$  added  as  a  constraint  on  the  initial  momenta,  a  constraint  that  Bohm 
thought  could  be  relaxed  (see  section fll.lj) .  For  de  Broglie,  in  contrast, 
the  law  of  motion  (J2j)  for  velocity  had  a  fundamental  status,  and  for  him 
represented  the  unification  of  the  principles  of  Maupertuis  and  Fermat. 
One  should  then  distinguish  between  de  Broglie's  first-order  (velocity- 
based)  dynamics  of  1927,  and  Bohm's  second-order  (acceleration-based) 
dynamics  of  1952. 

In  this  chapter,  we  shall  be  concerned  with  the  historical  origins  of 
de  Broglie's  1927  dynamics  defined  by  {1}  and  ([2]).  Some  authors  have 
referred  to  this  dynamics  as  'Bohmian  mechanics'.  Such  terminology  is 
misleading:  it  disregards  de  Broglie's  priority,  and  misses  de  Broglie's 
physical  motivations  for  recasting  dynamics  in  terms  of  velocity;  it  also 
misrepresents  Bohm's  1952  formulation,  which  was  based  on  (Q])  and  Q. 
These  and  other  historical  misconceptions  concerning  de  Broglie-Bohm 
theory  will  be  addressed  in  section  111.11 

The  two  equations  (jTJ ,  ([2])  define  a  deterministic  (de  Broglian  or  pilot- 
wave)  dynamics  for  a  single  multiparticle  system:  given  an  initial  wave 
function  \fr(xi,X2, xjv,  0)  at  t  =  0,  ((TJ)  determines  W(xi,  x2, x^v,  t) 
at  all  times  i;  and  given  an  initial  configuration  (xi(0),X2(0),  ...,xjv(0)), 
((2])  then  determines  the  trajectory  (xi(i),  X2(t), Xjv(t)).  For  an  ensem- 
ble of  systems  with  the  same  initial  wave  function  vE'(xi,x2,  ...,xjv,0), 
and  with  initial  configurations  (xi(0),  x2(0), xjv(0))  distributed  ac- 
cording to  the  Born  rule 


the  statistical  distribution  of  outcomes  of  quantum  measurements  will 
agree  with  the  predictions  of  standard  quantum  theory.  This  is  shown  by 
treating  the  measuring  apparatus,  together  with  the  system  being  mea- 
sured, as  a  single  multiparticle  system  obeying  de  Broglian  dynamics, 
so  that  (xi,X2,...,xjv)  defines  the  'pointer  position'  of  the  apparatus 
as  well  as  the  configuration  of  the  measured  system.  Given  the  initial 
condition  J5])  for  any  multiparticle  system,  the  statistical  distribution 
of  particle  positions  at  later  times  will  also  agree  with  the  Born  rule 
P  =  |*|2.  Thus,  the  statistical  distribution  of  pointer  positions  in  any 
experiment  will  agree  with  the  predictions  of  quantum  theory,  yielding 


P(xi,x2,  ...,xw,0)  =  |*(x1,x2)  ...,xat,0)|2 


(5) 


34 


De  Broglie's  pilot-wave  theory 


the  correct  statistical  distribution  of  outcomes  for  standard  quantum 
measurements. 

In  his  1927  Solvay  report,  de  Broglie  gave  some  simple  applications  of 
pilot- wave  theory,  with  the  assumed  initial  condition  ©.  He  applied  the 
theory  to  single-photon  interference,  to  atomic  transitions,  and  to  the 
scattering  (or  diffraction)  of  electrons  by  a  crystal  lattice.  But  a  detailed 
demonstration  of  equivalence  to  quantum  theory,  and  in  particular  a 
pilot- wave  account  of  the  general  quantum  theory  of  measurement,  was 
not  provided  until  the  work  of  Bohm  in  1952. 

How  did  de  Broglie  come  to  propose  this  theory  in  1927?  In  this 
chapter,  we  trace  de  Broglie's  work  in  this  direction,  from  his  early 
work  leading  to  his  doctoral  thesis  of  1924  (de  Broglie  1924e,  1925),  to 
his  crucial  paper  of  1927  published  in  Journal  de  Physique  (de  Broglie 
1927b),  and  culminating  in  his  presentation  of  pilot-wave  theory  at  the 
fifth  Solvay  conference.  We  examine  in  detail  how  de  Broglie  arrived  at 
this  new  form  of  particle  dynamics,  and  what  his  attitude  towards  it 
was.  Later,  in  chapter  [lOl  we  shall  consider  some  of  the  discussions  of 
de  Broglie's  theory  that  took  place  at  the  conference,  in  particular  the 
famous  (and  widely  misunderstood)  clash  between  de  Broglie  and  Pauli. 

De  Broglie's  dynamics  has  the  striking  feature  that  electrons  and  pho- 
tons are  regarded  as  both  particles  and  waves.  Like  many  scientific  ideas, 
this  mingling  of  particle- like  and  wave- like  aspects  had  precursors.  In 
Newton's  Opticks  (first  published  in  1704),  both  wave-like  and  particle- 
like properties  are  attributed  to  light.  Newton's  so-called  'corpuscular' 
theory  was  formulated  on  the  basis  of  extensive  and  detailed  experiments 
(carried  out  by  Grimaldi,  Hooke,  and  Newton  himself)  involving  what 
we  would  now  call  interference  and  diffraction.  According  to  Newton, 
light  corpuscles  —  or  light  'Rays'  as  he  called  therr@  —  generate  'Wa- 
ves of  Vibrations'  in  an  'Aethereal  Medium',  much  as  a  stone  thrown 
into  water  generates  water  waves  (Newton  1730;  reprint,  pp.  347-9).  In 
addition,  Newton  supposed  that  the  waves  in  turn  affect  the  motion 
of  the  corpuscles,  which  'may  be  alternately  accelerated  and  retarded 
by  the  Vibrations'  (p.  348).  In  particular,  Newton  thought  that  the 
effect  of  the  medium  on  the  motion  of  the  corpuscles  was  responsible  for 
the  phenomena  of  interference  and  diffraction.  He  writes,  for  example 
(p.  350): 

And  doth  not  the  gradual  condensation  of  this  Medium  extend  to  some  di- 
a  The  opening  definition  of  the  Opticks  defines  'Rays'  of  light  as  'its  least  Parts'. 


2.1  Background 


35 


stance  from  the  Bodies,  and  thereby  cause  the  Inflexions  of  the  Rays  of  Light, 
which  pass  by  the  edges  of  dense  Bodies,  at  some  distance  from  the  Bodies? 

Newton  understood  that,  for  diffraction  to  occur,  the  motion  of  the  light 
corpuscles  would  have  to  be  affected  at  a  distance  by  the  diffracting  body 
—  'Do  not  Bodies  act  upon  Light  at  a  distance,  and  by  their  action 
bend  its  Rays  ....  ?'  (p.  339)  —  and  his  proposed  mechanism  involved 
waves  in  an  inhomogeneous  ether.  Further,  according  to  Newton,  to 
account  for  the  coloured  fringes  that  had  been  observed  by  Grimaldi 
in  the  diffraction  of  white  light  by  opaque  bodies,  the  corpuscles  would 
have  to  execute  an  oscillatory  motion  'like  that  of  an  Eel'  (p.  339): 

Are  not  the  Rays  of  Light  in  passing  by  the  edges  and  sides  of  Bodies,  bent 
several  times  backwards  and  forwards,  with  a  motion  like  that  of  an  Eel?  And 
do  not  the  three  Fringes  of  colour'd  Light  above-mention'd  arise  from  three 
such  bendings? 

For  Newton,  of  course,  such  non-rectilinear  motion  could  be  caused  only 
by  a  force  emanating  from  the  diffracting  body. 

It  is  interesting  to  note  that,  in  the  general  discussion  at  the  fifth 
Solvay  conference  (p.  1509(1 .  de  Broglie  commented  on  this  very  point, 
with  reference  to  the  'emission'  (or  corpuscular)  theory,  and  pointed  out 
that  if  pilot-wave  dynamics  were  written  in  terms  of  acceleration  (as 
done  later  by  Bohm)  then  just  such  forces  appeared: 

In  the  corpuscular  conception  of  light,  the  existence  of  diffraction  phenomena 
occuring  at  the  edge  of  a  screen  requires  us  to  assume  that,  in  this  case,  the 
trajectory  of  the  photons  is  curved.  The  supporters  of  the  emission  theory  said 
that  the  edge  of  the  screen  exerts  a  force  on  the  corpuscle.  Now,  if  in  the  new 
mechanics  as  I  develop  it,  one  writes  the  Lagrange  equations  for  the  photon, 
one  sees  appear  on  the  right-hand  side  of  these  equations  a  term  ....  [that]  .... 
represents  a  sort  of  force  of  a  new  kind,  which  exists  only  ....  where  there  is 
interference.  It  is  this  force  that  will  curve  the  trajectory  of  the  photon  when 
its  wave  ip  is  diffracted  by  the  edge  of  a  screen. 

The  striking  similarity  between  Newton's  qualitative  ideas  and  pilot- 
wave  theory  has  also  been  noted  by  Berry,  who  remarks  that  during  in- 
terference or  diffraction  the  de  Broglie-Bohm  trajectories  indeed  'wriggle 
like  an  eel'  (Berry  1997,  p.  42),  in  some  sense  vindicating  Newton. 

A  mathematical  precursor  to  de  Broglian  dynamics  is  found  in  the 
early  nineteenth  century,  in  Hamilton's  formulation  of  geometrical  optics 
and  particle  mechanics.  As  de  Broglie  points  out  in  his  Solvay  report 
(pp.13761  and!382p.  Hamilton's  theory  is  in  fact  the  short-wavelength  limit 
of  pilot-wave  dynamics:  for  in  that  limit,  the  phase  of  the  wave  function 


36 


De  Broglie's  pilot-wave  theory 


obeys  the  Hamilton- Jacobi  equation,  and  de  Broglie's  trajectories  reduce 
to  those  of  classical  mechanics. 

A  physical  theory  of  light  as  both  particles  and  waves  —  in  effect  a 
revival  of  Newton's  views  —  emerged  again  with  Einstein  in  1905.  It  is 
less  well  known  that,  after  1905,  Einstein  tried  to  construct  theories  of 
localised  light  quanta  coupled  to  vector  fields  in  3-space.  As  we  shall  see 
in  chapter  [9l  Einstein's  ideas  in  this  vein  show  some  resemblance  to  de 
Broglie's  but  also  differ  from  them. 

It  should  also  be  mentioned  that,  in  the  autumn  of  1923  (the  same  year 
in  which  de  Broglie  first  elaborated  his  ideas),  Slater  tried  to  develop  a 
theory  in  which  the  motion  of  photons  was  guided  by  the  electromagnetic 
field.  It  appears  that  Slater  first  attempted  to  construct  a  deterministic 
theory,  but  had  trouble  defining  an  appropriate  velocity  vector;  he  then 
came  to  the  conclusion  that  photons  and  the  electromagnetic  field  were 
related  only  statistically,  with  the  photon  probability  density  being  given 
by  the  intensity  of  the  field.  After  discussing  his  ideas  with  Bohr  and 
Kramers  in  1924,  the  photons  were  removed  from  the  theory,  apparently 
against  Slater's  wishes  (Mehra  and  Rechenberg  1982a,  pp.  542-6).  Note 
that,  while  de  Broglie  applied  his  theory  to  photons,  he  made  it  clear 
(for  example  in  the  general  discussion,  p.  1508(1  that  in  his  theory  the 
guiding  'f/i-wave'  was  distinct  from  the  electromagnetic  field. 

In  the  case  of  light,  then,  the  idea  of  combining  both  particle-like  and 
wave-like  aspects  was  an  old  one,  going  back  indeed  to  Newton.  In  the 
case  of  ordinary  matter,  however,  de  Broglie  seems  to  have  been  the  first 
to  develop  a  physical  theory  of  this  form. 

It  is  sometimes  claimed  that,  for  the  case  of  electrons,  ideas  similar 
to  de  Broglie's  were  put  forward  by  Madelung  in  1926.  What  Madelung 
proposed,  however,  was  to  regard  an  electron  with  mass  m  and  wave 
function  ijj  not  as  a  pointlike  particle  within  the  wave,  but  as  a  continuous 
fluid  spread  over  space  with  mass  density  m  |^|2  (Madelung  1926a, b).  In 
this  'hydrodynamical'  interpretation,  mathematically  the  fluid  velocity 
coincides  with  de  Broglie's  velocity  field;  but  physically,  Madelung's 
theory  seems  more  akin  to  Schrodinger's  theory  than  to  de  Broglie's. 

Finally,  before  we  examine  de  Broglie's  work,  we  note  what  appears 
to  be  a  recurring  historical  opposition  to  dualistic  physical  theories 
containing  both  waves  and  particles.  In  1801-03,  Thomas  Young,  who  by 
his  own  account  regarded  his  theory  as  a  development  of  Newton's  ideas  jf| 
removed  the  corpuscles  from  Newton's  theory  and  produced  a  purely 

a  See,  for  example,  Bernard  Cohen's  preface  to  Newton's  Opticks  (1730,  reprint). 


2.2  A  new  approach  to  particle  dynamics:  1923-24  37 


undulatory  account  of  light.  In  1905,  Einstein's  dualist  view  of  light 
was  not  taken  seriously,  and  did  not  win  widespread  support  until  the 
discovery  of  the  Compton  effect  in  1923.  In  1924,  Bohr  and  Kramers,  who 
regarded  the  Bohr-Kramers-Slater  theory  as  a  development  of  Slater's 
original  idea,  insisted  on  removing  the  photons  from  Slater's  theory 
of  radiation|f|  And  in  1926,  Schrodinger,  who  regarded  his  work  as  a 
development  of  de  Broglie's  ideas,  removed  the  trajectories  from  de 
Broglie's  theory  and  produced  a  purely  undulatory  'wave  mechanics'!! 


2.2  A  new  approach  to  particle  dynamics:  1923  24 

In  this  section  we  show  how  de  Broglie  took  his  first  steps  towards  a 
new  form  of  dynamics  @  His  aim  was  to  explain  the  quantum  phenomena 
known  at  the  time  —  in  particular  the  Bohr-Sommerfeld  quantisation  of 
atomic  energy  levels,  and  the  apparently  dual  nature  of  radiation  —  by 
unifying  the  physics  of  particles  with  the  physics  of  waves.  To  accomplish 
this,  de  Broglie  began  by  extending  Einstein's  wave-particle  duality  for 
light  to  all  material  bodies,  by  introducing  a  'phase  wave'  accompany- 
ing every  material  particle.  Then,  inspired  by  the  optical-mechanical 
analogy^]  de  Broglie  proposed  that  Newton's  first  law  of  motion  should 
be  abandoned,  and  replaced  by  a  new  principle  that  unified  Maupertuis' 
variational  principle  for  mechanics  with  Fermat's  variational  principle  for 
optics.  The  result  was  a  new  form  of  dynamics  in  which  the  velocity  v  of  a 
particle  is  determined  by  the  gradient  of  the  phase  <j)  of  an  accompanying 
wave  —  in  contrast  with  classical  mechanics,  where  accelerations  are 
determined  by  forces.  (Note  that  de  Broglie's  phase  <j)  has  a  sign  opposite 
to  the  phase  S  as  we  would  normally  define  it  now.) 

This  new  approach  to  dynamics  enabled  de  Broglie  to  obtain  a  wave- 
like explanation  for  the  quantisation  of  atomic  energy  levels,  to  explain 
the  observed  interference  of  single  photons,  and  to  predict  for  the  first 
time  the  new  and  unexpected  phenomenon  of  the  diffraction  and  inter- 
ference of  electrons. 

As  we  shall  see,  the  theory  proposed  by  de  Broglie  in  1923-24  was, 

a  In  1925,  Born  and  Jordan  attempted  to  restore  the  photons,  proposing  a  stochastic 
theory  reminiscent  of  Slater's  original  ideas;  it  appears  that  they  were  dissuaded 
from  publication  by  Bohr.  See  Darrigol  (1992,  p.  253)  and  section  [5. 4. 21 

b  Cf.  section  14751 

a  An  insightful  and  general  account  of  de  Broglie's  early  work,  up  to  1924,  has  been 

given  by  Darrigol  (1993). 
b  Possibly,  de  Broglie  was  also  influenced  by  the  philosopher  Henri  Bergson's  writings 

concerning  time,  continuity  and  motion  (Feuer  1974,  pp.  206-14);  though  this  is 

denied  by  Lochak  (1992). 


38 


De  Broglie's  pilot-wave  theory 


in  fact,  a  simple  form  of  pilot-wave  dynamics,  for  the  special  case  of 
independent  particles  guided  by  waves  in  3-space,  and  without  a  specific 
wave  equation. 

2.2.1  First  papers  on  pilot-wave  theory  (1923) 

De  Broglie's  earliest  experience  of  physics  was  closely  tied  to  experiment. 
During  the  first  world  war  he  worked  on  wireless  telegraphy,  and  after  the 
war  his  first  papers  concerned  X-ray  spectroscopy.  In  1922  he  published 
a  paper  treating  blackbody  radiation  as  a  gas  of  light  quanta  (de  Broglie 
1922).  In  this  paper,  de  Broglie  made  the  unusual  assumption  that 
photons  had  a  very  small  but  non-zero  rest  mass  mo.  He  was  therefore 
now  applying  Einstein's  relations  E  —  hv  and  p  =  h/X  (relating  energy 
and  momentum  to  frequency  and  wavelength)  to  massive  particles,  even 
if  these  were  still  only  photons.  It  seems  that  de  Broglie  made  the 
assumption  to0  ^  0  so  that  light  quanta  could  be  treated  in  the  same 
way  as  ordinary  material  particles.  It  appears  that  this  paper  was  the 
seed  from  which  de  Broglie's  subsequent  work  grewB 

According  to  de  Broglie's  later  recollections  (L.  de  Broglie,  AHQP 
interview,  7  January  1963,  p.  I),2  his  first  ideas  concerning  a  pilot-wave 
theory  of  massive  particles  arose  as  follows.  During  conversations  on 
the  subject  of  X-rays  with  his  older  brother  Maurice  de  Broglie0  he 
became  convinced  that  X-rays  were  both  particles  and  waves.  Then,  in 
the  summer  of  1923,  de  Broglie  had  the  idea  of  extending  this  duality 
to  ordinary  matter,  in  particular  to  electrons.  He  was  drawn  in  this 
direction  by  consideration  of  the  optical-mechanical  analogy;  further, 
the  presence  of  whole  numbers  in  quantisation  conditions  suggested  to 
him  that  waves  must  be  involved. 

This  last  motivation  was  recalled  by  de  Broglie  (1999)  in  his  Nobel 
lecture  of  1929: 

....  the  determination  of  the  stable  motions  of  the  electrons  in  the  atom  involves 
whole  numbers,  and  so  far  the  only  phenomena  in  which  whole  numbers  were 
involved  in  physics  were  those  of  interference  and  of  eigenvibrations.  That 
suggested  the  idea  to  me  that  electrons  themselves  could  not  be  represented 

a  In  a  collection  of  papers  by  de  Broglie  and  Brillouin,  published  in  1928,  a  footnote 
added  to  de  Broglie's  1922  paper  on  blackbody  radiation  and  light  quanta  remarks: 
'This  paper  ....  was  the  origin  of  the  ideas  of  the  author  on  wave  mechanics'  (de 
Broglie  and  Brillouin  1928,  p.  1). 

b  Maurice,  the  sixth  due  de  Broglie,  was  a  distinguished  experimental  physicist, 
having  done  important  work  on  the  photoelectric  effect  with  X-rays  —  experiments 
that  were  carried  out  in  his  private  laboratory  in  Paris. 


2.2  A  new  approach  to  particle  dynamics:  1923-24  39 


as  simple  corpuscles  either,  but  that  a  periodicity  had  also  to  be  assigned  to 
them  too. 

De  Broglie  first  presented  his  new  ideas  in  three  notes  published  (in 
French)  in  the  Comptes  Rendus  of  the  Academy  of  Sciences  in  Paris  (de 
Broglie  1923a, b,c),  and  also  in  two  papers  published  in  English  —  one 
in  Nature  (de  Broglie  1923d),  the  other  in  the  Philosophical  Magazine 
(de  Broglie  1924a)Q 

The  ideas  in  these  papers  formed  the  basis  for  de  Broglie's  doctoral 
thesis.  The  paper  in  the  Philosophical  Magazine  reads,  in  fact,  like  a 
summary  of  much  of  the  material  in  the  thesis.  Since  the  thesis  provides 
a  more  systematic  presentation,  we  shall  give  a  detailed  summary  of  it 
in  the  next  subsection;  here,  we  give  only  a  brief  account  of  the  earlier 
papers,  except  for  the  crucial  second  paper,  whose  conceptual  content 
warrants  more  detailed  commentary^ 


The  first  communication  (de  Broglie  1923a),  entitled  'Waves  and  quan- 
ta', proposes  that  an  'internal  periodic  phenomenon'  should  be  associa- 
ted with  any  massive  particle  (including  light  quanta) .  In  the  rest  frame 
of  a  particle  with  rest  mass  mo,  the  periodic  phenomenon  is  assumed  to 
have  a  frequency  i>q  =  m^c2 /h.  In  a  frame  where  the  particle  has  uniform 
velocity  v,  de  Broglie  considers  the  two  frequencies  v  and  v\,  where 
v  =  —  v2/c2  is  the  frequency  v  =  mc2/h  associated  with  the 

relativistic  mass  increase  m  —  mo / y/\  —  v2/c2  and  v\  =  vq yl  —  v2/c2 
is  the  time-dilated  frequency.  De  Broglie  shows  that,  because  v>\  =  2/(1  — 
v2/c2),  a  'fictitious'  wave  of  frequency  v  and  phase  velocity  vph  =  c2/v 
(propagating  in  the  same  direction  as  the  particle)  will  remain  in  phase 
with  the  internal  oscillation  of  frequency  V\ .  De  Broglie  then  considers 
an  atomic  electron  moving  uniformly  on  a  circular  orbit.  He  proposes 
that  orbits  are  stable  only  if  the  fictitious  wave  remains  in  phase  with 
the  internal  oscillation  of  the  electron.  From  this  condition,  de  Broglie 
derives  the  Bohr-Sommerfeld  quantisation  condition. 

The  second  communication  (de  Broglie  1923b),  entitled  'Light  quanta, 
diffraction  and  interference',  has  a  more  conceptual  tone.  De  Broglie 
begins  by  recalling  his  previous  result,  that  a  moving  body  must  be  as- 
sociated with  'a  non-material  sinusoidal  wave'.  He  adds  that  the  particle 
velocity  v  is  equal  to  the  group  velocity  of  the  wave,  which  de  Broglie  here 
calls  'the  phase  wave'  because  its  phase  at  the  location  of  the  particle  is 
equal  to  the  phase  of  the  internal  oscillation  of  the  particle.  De  Broglie 

a  It  seems  possible  that  Comptes  Rendus  was  not  widely  read  by  physicists  outside 
Prance,  but  this  certainly  was  not  true  of  Nature  or  the  Philosophical  Magazine. 
b  We  do  not  always  keep  to  de  Broglie's  original  notation. 


40 


De  Broglie's  pilot-wave  theory 


then  goes  on  to  make  some  very  significant  observations  about  diffraction 
and  the  nature  of  the  new  dynamics  that  he  is  proposing. 

De  Broglie  asserts  that  diffraction  phenomena  prove  that  light  quanta 
cannot  always  propagate  in  a  straight  line,  even  in  what  would  normally 
be  called  empty  space.  He  draws  the  bold  conclusion  that  Newton's  first 
law  of  motion  (the  'principle  of  inertia')  must  be  abandoned  (p.  549): 

The  light  quanta  [atomes  de  lumiere]  whose  existence  we  assume  do  not  always 
propagate  in  a  straight  line,  as  proved  by  the  phenomena  of  diffraction.  It  then 
seems  necessary  to  modify  the  principle  of  inertia. 

De  Broglie  then  suggests  replacing  Newton's  first  law  with  a  new  postu- 
late (p.  549): 

We  propose  to  adopt  the  following  postulate  as  the  basis  of  the  dynamics  of 
the  free  material  point:  'At  each  point  of  its  trajectory,  a  free  moving  body 
follows  in  a  uniform  motion  the  ray  of  its  phase  wave,  that  is  (in  an  isotropic 
medium),  the  normal  to  the  surfaces  of  equal  phase'. 

The  diffraction  of  light  quanta  is  then  explained  since,  as  de  Broglie  no- 
tes, 'if  the  moving  body  must  pass  through  an  opening  whose  dimensions 
are  small  compared  to  the  wavelength  of  the  phase  wave,  in  general  its 
trajectory  will  curve  like  the  ray  of  the  diffracted  wave'. 

In  retrospect,  de  Broglie's  postulate  for  free  particles  may  be  seen  as  a 
simplified  form  of  the  law  of  motion  of  what  we  now  know  as  pilot-wave 
dynamics  —  except  for  the  statement  that  the  motion  along  a  ray  be 
'uniform'  (that  is,  have  constant  speed),  which  in  pilot-wave  theory  is 
true  only  in  special  casesQ  De  Broglie  notes  that  his  postulate  respects 
conservation  of  energy  but  not  of  momentum.  And  indeed,  in  pilot-wave 
theory  the  momentum  of  a  'free'  particle  is  generally  not  conserved:  in 
effect  (from  the  standpoint  of  Bohm's  Newtonian  formulation),  the  pilot 
wave  or  quantum  potential  acts  like  an  'external  source'  of  momentum 
(and  in  general  of  energy  too)@  The  abandonment  of  something  as 

a  Prom  Bohm's  second-order  equation  J3j  applied  to  a  single  particle,  for  time- 
independent  V  it  follows  that  d(^mv2  +  V  +  Q)/dt  =  dQ/dt  (the  usual  energy 
conservation  formula  with  a  time-dependent  contribution  Q  to  the  potential).  In 
free  space  (V  =  0),  the  speed  v  is  constant  if  and  only  if  dQ/dt  =  dQ/dt  or 
v  ■  VQ  =  0  (so  that  the  'quantum  force'  does  no  work),  which  is  true  only  in 
special  cases. 

b  Again  from  (TSJ,  in  free  space  the  rate  of  change  of  momentum  p  =  mv  (where 
v  =  VS/m)  is  dp/dt  =  — VQ,  which  is  generally  non-zero.  Further,  in  general  (TSJ 
implies  d(^mv2  +  V)/dt  =  — v  ■  VQ,  so  that  the  standard  (classical)  expression 
for  energy  is  conserved  if  and  only  if  v  ■  VQ  =  0.  If,  on  the  other  hand,  one  defines 
|  mv2  +  V  +  Q  as  the  'energy' ,  it  will  be  conserved  if  and  only  if  dQ/dt  =  0,  which 
is  true  only  for  special  cases  (in  particular  for  stationary  states,  since  for  these  l^l 
is  time-independent). 


2.2  A  new  approach  to  particle  dynamics:  1923-24  41 


elementary  as  momentum  conservation  is  certainly  a  radical  step  by 
any  standards.  On  the  other  hand,  if  one  is  willing  —  as  de  Broglie  was 
—  to  propose  a  fundamentally  new  approach  to  the  theory  of  motion, 
then  the  loss  of  classical  conservation  laws  is  not  surprising,  as  these  are 
really  properties  of  classical  equations  of  motion. 

De  Broglie  then  makes  a  remarkable  prediction,  that  any  moving  body 
(not  just  light  quanta)  can  undergo  diffraction: 

....  any  moving  body  could  in  certain  cases  be  diffracted.  A  stream  of  electrons 
passing  through  a  small  enough  opening  will  show  diffraction  phenomena.  It 
is  in  this  direction  that  one  should  perhaps  look  for  experimental  confirmation 
of  our  ideas. 

Next,  de  Broglie  puts  his  proposals  in  a  general  conceptual  and  hi- 
storical perspective.  Concerning  the  role  of  the  phase  wave,  he  writes 
(p.  549): 

We  therefore  conceive  of  the  phase  wave  as  guiding  the  movements  of  energy, 
and  this  is  what  can  allow  the  synthesis  of  waves  and  quanta. 

Here,  for  the  first  time,  de  Broglie  characterises  the  phase  wave  as  a 
'guiding'  wave.  De  Broglie  then  remarks  that,  historically  speaking,  the 
theory  of  waves  'went  too  far'  by  denying  the  discontinuous  structure  of 
radiation  and  'not  far  enough'  by  not  playing  a  role  in  dynamics.  For  de 
Broglie,  his  proposal  has  a  clear  historical  significance  (p.  549,  italics  in 
the  original): 

The  new  dynamics  of  the  free  material  point  is  to  the  old  dynamics  (including 
that  of  Einstein)  what  wave  optics  is  to  geometrical  optics.  Upon  reflection 
one  will  see  that  the  proposed  synthesis  appears  as  the  logical  culmination  of 
the  comparative  development  of  dynamics  and  of  optics  since  the  seventeenth 
century. 

In  the  second  part  of  this  note,  de  Broglie  considers  the  explanation  of 
optical  interference  fringes.  He  assumes  that  the  probability  for  an  atom 
to  absorb  or  emit  a  light  quantum  is  determined  by  'the  resultant  of  one 
of  the  vectors  of  the  phase  waves  crossing  each  other  there  [se  croisant  sur 
lui]'  (pp.  549-50).  In  Young's  interference  experiment,  the  light  quanta 
passing  through  the  two  holes  are  diffracted,  and  the  probability  of  them 
being  detected  behind  the  screen  will  vary  from  point  to  point,  depending 
on  the  'state  of  interference'  of  the  phase  waves.  De  Broglie  concludes 
that  there  will  be  bright  and  dark  fringes  as  predicted  by  the  wave 
theories,  no  matter  how  feeble  the  incident  light. 

This  approach  to  optical  interference  —  in  which  interfering  phase 


42 


De  Broglie's  pilot-wave  theory 


waves  determine  the  probability  for  interaction  between  photons  and 
the  atoms  in  the  detection  apparatus  —  is  elaborated  in  de  Broglie's 
thesis  (see  below).  Soon  after  completing  his  thesis  (apparently),  de 
Broglie  abandoned  this  idea  in  favour  of  a  simpler  approach,  in  which 
the  interfering  phase  waves  determine  the  number  density  of  photon 
trajectories  (see  section l2.2.3p. 

In  de  Broglie's  third  communication  (de  Broglie  1923c),  entitled  'Quan- 
ta, the  kinetic  theory  of  gases  and  Fermat's  principle',  part  1  considers 
the  statistical  treatment  of  a  gas  of  particles  accompanied  by  phase 
waves.  De  Broglie  makes  the  following  assumption: 

The  state  of  the  gas  will  then  be  stable  only  if  the  waves  corresponding  to  all 
of  the  atoms  form  a  system  of  stationary  waves. 

In  other  words,  de  Broglie  considers  the  stationary  modes,  or  standing 
waves,  associated  with  a  given  spatial  volume.  He  assumes  that  each 
mode  'can  transport  zero,  one,  two  or  several  atoms',  with  probabilities 
determined  by  the  Boltzmann  factorQ  According  to  de  Broglie,  for  a 
gas  of  nonrelativistic  atoms  his  method  yields  the  Maxwell  distribution, 
while  for  a  gas  of  photons  it  yields  the  Planck  distribution]^ 

In  part  2  of  the  same  note,  de  Broglie  shows  how  his  new  dynamical 
postulate  amounts  to  a  unification  of  Maupertuis'  principle  of  least 
action  with  Fermat's  principle  of  least  time  in  optics.  Let  us  recall  that, 
in  the  mechanical  principle  of  Maupertuis  for  particle  trajectories, 


the  condition  of  stationarity  determines  the  particle  paths.  (In  ^  the 
energy  is  fixed  on  the  varied  paths;  at  the  end  points,  Ax  =  0  but  At 
need  not  be  zero.)  While  in  the  optical  principle  of  Fermat  for  light  rays, 


the  stationary  line  integral  for  the  phase  change  —  the  stationary  'optical 
path  length'  —  provides  a  condition  that  determines  the  path  of  a  ray 
connecting  two  points,  in  space  (for  the  time-independent  case)  or  in 
spacetime.  Now,  according  to  de  Broglie's  basic  postulate:  'The  rays 

a  As  remarked  by  Pais  (1982,  pp.  435-6),  in  this  paper  de  Broglie  'evaluated 
independently  of  Bose  (and  published  before  him)  the  density  of  radiation  states 
in  terms  of  particle  (photon)  language'. 

b  As  shown  by  Darrigol  (1993),  de  Broglie  made  some  errors  in  his  application  of 
the  methods  of  statistical  mechanics. 


(6) 


(7) 


2.2  A  new  approach  to  particle  dynamics:  1923-24  43 


of  the  phase  waves  coincide  with  the  dynamically  possible  trajectories' 
(p.  632).  The  rays  are  described  by  Fermat's  principle  (for  the  case 
of  a  dispersive  medium),  which  de  Broglie  shows  coincides  with  Mau- 
pertuis'  principle,  as  follows:  writing  the  element  of  phase  change  as 
d<f>  =  2'Kvdl/vph,  where  dl  is  an  element  of  path  and  wph  =  c2 /v  is  the 
phase  velocity,  and  using  the  relation  v  —  E/h  =  mc2/h,  the  element 
of  phase  change  may  be  rewritten  as  (2n/h)mvdl,  so  that  ([7])  coincides 
with  p.  As  de  Broglie  puts  it  (p.  632): 

In  this  way  the  fundamental  link  that  unites  the  two  great  principles  of 
geometrical  optics  and  of  dynamics  is  brought  fully  to  light. 

De  Broglie  remarks  that  some  of  the  dynamically  possible  trajectories 
will  be  'in  resonance  with  the  phase  wave',  and  that  these  correspond  to 
Bohr's  stable  orbits,  for  which  J  vdl/vv^  is  a  whole  number. 

Soon  afterwards,  de  Broglie  introduces  a  covariant  4- vector  formulati- 
on of  his  basic  dynamical  postulate  (de  Broglie  1924a, b).  He  defines 
a  4-vector  wM  =  {v/c,  —  (z//«ph)n),  where  n  is  a  unit  vector  in  the 
direction  of  a  ray  of  the  phase  wave,  and  assumes  it  to  be  related  to  the 
energy-momentum  4-vector  _  M  =  (E/c,—p)  by  p^  —  hw^.  De  Broglie 
notes  that  the  identity  of  the  principles  of  Maupertuis  and  Fermat  then 
follows  immediately.  We  shall  discuss  this  in  more  detail  in  the  next 
subsection. 


2.2.2  Thesis  (1924) 

He  has  lifted  a  corner  of  the  great  veil. 

Einstein,  commenting  on  de  Broglie's  thesis^ 

De  Broglie's  doctoral  thesis  (de  Broglie  1924e)  was  mostly  based  on 
the  above  papers.  It  seems  to  have  been  completed  in  the  summer  of 
1924,  and  was  defended  at  the  Sorbonne  in  November.  The  thesis  was 
published  early  in  1925  in  the  Annales  de  Physique  (de  Broglie  1925)E 
When  writing  his  thesis  ,de  Broglie  was  well  aware  that  his  theory  had 
gaps.  As  he  put  it  (p.  30)0 

a  Letter  to  Langevin,  16  December  1924  (quoted  in  Darrigol  1993,  p.  355). 

b  An  English  translation  of  extracts  from  de  Broglie's  thesis  appears  in  Ludwig 

(1968).  A  complete  translation  has  been  done  by  A.  F.  Kracklauer  (currently  online 

at  http://www.ensmp.fr/aflb/LDB-oeuvres/De_Broglie_Kracklauer.htm  ).  All 

translations  here  are  ours, 
c  Here  and  below,  page  references  for  de  Broglie's  thesis  correspond  to  the  published 

version  in  Annales  de  Physique  (de  Broglie  1925). 


44 


De  Broglie's  pilot-wave  theory 


....  the  main  aim  of  the  present  thesis  is  to  present  a  more  complete  account 
of  the  new  ideas  that  we  have  proposed,  of  the  successes  to  which  they  have 
led,  and  also  of  the  many  gaps  they  contain. 

De  Broglie  begins  his  thesis  with  a  historical  introduction.  Newtonian 
mechanics,  he  notes,  was  eventually  formulated  in  terms  of  the  principle 
of  least  action,  which  was  first  given  by  Maupertuis  and  then  later  in 
another  form  by  Hamilton.  As  for  the  science  of  light  and  optics,  the 
laws  of  geometrical  optics  were  eventually  summarised  by  Fermat  in 
terms  of  a  principle  whose  form  is  reminiscent  of  the  principle  of  least 
action.  Newton  tried  to  explain  some  of  the  phenomena  of  wave  optics 
in  terms  of  his  corpuscular  theory,  but  the  work  of  Young  and  Fresnel 
led  to  the  rise  of  the  wave  theory  of  light,  in  particular  the  successful 
wave  explanation  of  the  rectilinear  propagation  of  light  (which  had  been 
so  clear  in  the  corpuscular  or  'emission'  theory).  On  this,  de  Broglie 
comments  (p.  25): 

When  two  theories,  based  on  ideas  that  seem  entirely  different,  account  for 
the  same  experimental  fact  with  equal  elegance,  one  can  always  wonder  if  the 
opposition  between  the  two  points  of  view  is  truly  real  and  is  not  due  solely 
to  an  inadequacy  of  our  efforts  at  synthesis. 

This  remark  is,  of  course,  a  hint  that  the  aim  of  the  thesis  is  to  effect  just 
such  a  synthesis.  De  Broglie  then  turns  to  the  rise  of  electrodynamics,  re- 
lativity, and  the  theory  of  energy  quanta.  He  notes  that  Einstein's  theory 
of  the  photoelectric  effect  amounts  to  a  revival  of  Newton's  corpuscular 
theory.  De  Broglie  then  sketches  Bohr's  1913  theory  of  the  atom,  and 
goes  on  to  point  out  that  observations  of  the  photoelectric  effect  for 
X-  and  7-rays  seem  to  confirm  the  corpuscular  character  of  radiation. 
At  the  same  time,  the  wave  aspect  continues  to  be  confirmed  by  the 
observed  interference  and  diffraction  of  X-rays.  Finally,  de  Broglie  notes 
the  very  recent  corpuscular  interpretation  of  Compton  scattering.  De 
Broglie  concludes  his  historical  introduction  with  a  mention  of  his  own 
recent  work  (p.  30): 

....  the  moment  seemed  to  have  arrived  to  make  an  effort  towards  unifying  the 
corpuscular  and  wave  points  of  view  and  to  go  a  bit  more  deeply  into  the  true 
meaning  of  the  quanta.  That  is  what  we  have  done  recently  .... 

De  Broglie  clearly  regarded  his  own  work  as  a  synthesis  of  earlier  the- 
ories of  dynamics  and  optics,  a  synthesis  increasingly  forced  upon  us  by 
accumulating  experimental  evidence. 

Chapter  1  of  the  thesis  is  entitled  'The  phase  wave'.  De  Broglie  begins 


2.2  A  new  approach  to  particle  dynamics:  1923-24  45 


by  recalling  the  equivalence  of  mass  and  energy  implied  by  the  theory 
of  relativity.  Turning  to  the  problem  of  quanta,  he  remarks  (pp.  32-3): 

It  seems  to  us  that  the  fundamental  idea  of  the  quantum  theory  is  the  im- 
possibility of  considering  an  isolated  quantity  of  energy  without  associating  a 
certain  frequency  with  it.  This  connection  is  expressed  by  what  I  shall  call  the 
quantum  relation: 

energy  =  h  x  frequency 
where  h  is  Planck's  constant. 

To  make  sense  of  the  quantum  relation,  de  Broglie  proposes  that  (p.  33) 

....  to  each  energy  fragment  of  proper  mass  mo  there  is  attached  a  periodic 
phenomenon  of  frequency  uo  such  that  one  has: 

hvo  =  moc2 

vq  being  measured,  of  course,  in  the  system  tied  to  the  energy  fragment. 

De  Broglie  asks  if  the  periodic  phenomenon  must  be  assumed  to  be 
localised  inside  the  energy  fragment.  He  asserts  that  this  is  not  at  all 
necessary,  and  that  it  will  be  seen  to  be  'without  doubt  spread  over  an 
extensive  region  of  space'  (p.  34). 

De  Broglie  goes  on  to  consider  the  apparent  contradiction  between  the 
frequency  v  —  mc2/h  =  z/o/yl  —  v2 /c2  and  the  time-dilated  frequency 
v\  =  voy/l  —  v2 /c2.  He  proposes  that  the  contradiction  is  resolved  by 
the  following  'theorem  of  phase  harmony'  (p.  35):  in  a  frame  where 
the  moving  body  has  velocity  v,  the  periodic  phenomenon  tied  to  the 
moving  body  and  with  frequency  v\  is  always  in  phase  with  a  wave 
of  frequency  v  propagating  in  the  same  direction  as  the  moving  body 
with  phase  velocity  vph  =  c2/v.  This  is  shown  by  applying  the  Lorentz 
transformation  to  a  rest-frame  wave  sm(voto),  yielding  a  wave 


sin 


vo(t-  vx/c2)  /^l-v2/c2  (8) 


of  frequency  v  =  vq/ \Jl  —  v2/c2  and  phase  velocity  c2 /v.  Regarding  the 
nature  of  this  wave  de  Broglie  says  that,  because  its  velocity  is  greater 
than  c,  it  cannot  be  a  wave  transporting  energy:  rather,  'it  represents  the 
spatial  distribution  of  the  phases  of  a  phenomenon;  it  is  a  "phase  wave'" 
(p.  36).  De  Broglie  shows  that  the  group  velocity  of  the  phase  wave  is 
equal  to  the  velocity  of  the  particle.  In  the  final  section  of  chapter  1 
('The  phase  wave  in  spacetime'),  he  discusses  the  appearance  of  surfaces 
of  constant  phase  for  differently  moving  observers,  from  a  spacetime 
perspective. 


46 


De  Broglie's  pilot-wave  theory 


Chapter  2  is  entitled  'Maupertuis'  principle  and  Fermat's  principle'. 
The  aim  is  to  generalise  the  results  of  the  first  chapter  to  non-uniform, 
non-rectilinear  motion.  In  the  introduction  to  chapter  2  de  Broglie  writes 
(p.  45): 

Guided  by  the  idea  of  a  deep  unity  between  the  principle  of  least  action  and 
that  of  Fermat,  from  the  beginning  of  my  investigations  on  this  subject  I  was 
led  to  assume  that,  for  a  given  value  of  the  total  energy  of  the  moving  body 
and  therefore  of  the  frequency  of  its  phase  wave,  the  dynamically  possible 
trajectories  of  the  one  coincided  with  the  possible  rays  of  the  other. 

De  Broglie  discusses  the  principle  of  least  action,  in  the  different  forms 
given  by  Hamilton  and  by  Maupertuis,  and  also  for  relativistic  particles 
in  an  external  electromagnetic  field.  He  writes  Hamilton's  principle  as 

rQ 

5  J    p^dx"  =  0  (9) 

(/i  =  0, 1,  2,  3,  with  dx°  =  cdt),  where  P,  Q  are  points  in  spacetime  and 
P[t  is  the  canonical  energy-momentum  4-vector,  and  notes  that  if  po  is 
constant  the  principle  becomes 

S  [   Pldxl  =  0  (10) 

J  A 

(i  =  1,2,3),  where  A,  B  are  the  corresponding  points  in  space  —  that 
is,  Hamilton's  principle  reduces  to  Maupertuis'  principle. 

De  Broglie  then  discusses  wave  propagation  and  Fermat's  principle 
from  a  spacetime  perspective.  He  considers  a  sinusoidal  function  sin</>, 
where  the  phase  (p  has  a  spacetime-dependent  differential  dip,  and  writes 
the  variational  principle  for  the  ray  in  spacetime  in  the  Hamiltonian 
form 

rQ 

S  J    d(f>  =  0  .  (11) 

De  Broglie  then  introduces  a  4-vector  field  wM  on  spacetime,  defined  by 

d<f>  =  2irwlldxtl  ,  (12) 

where  the  are  generally  functions  on  spacetime.  (Of  course,  this 
implies  that  =  d^cj),  though  de  Broglie  does  not  write  this  ex- 

plicitly.) De  Broglie  also  notes  that  dip  =  2-K{vdt  —  (u/vph)dl)  and  = 
{v/c,  —  (^/wph)n),  where  n  is  a  unit  vector  in  the  direction  of  propaga- 
tion; and  that  if  v  is  constant,  the  principle  in  the  Hamiltonian  form 

S  /    Wfldx»  =  0  (13) 


2.2  A  new  approach  to  particle  dynamics:  1923-24  47 


reduces  to  the  principle  in  the  Maupertuisian  form 

wtdxl  =  0  ,  (14) 


7 

J  A 


or 

-dl  =  0  ,  (15) 


which  is  Fermat's  principle. 

De  Broglie  then  discusses  an  'extension  of  the  quantum  relation'  (that 
is,  an  extension  of  E  =  hv).  He  states  that  the  two  4- vectors  p^  and 
play  perfectly  symmetrical  roles  in  the  motion  of  a  particle  and  in 
the  propagation  of  a  wave.  Writing  the  'quantum  relation'  E  —  hv  as 
wo  =  jlPvi,  de  Broglie  proposes  the  generalisation 


1 

W,j,  = 

so  that 


»m  =  jV^  ,  (16) 


d<f>  =  2irwfldx>*  =  ^-p^dx^  .  (17) 
Fermat's  principle  then  becomes 

8  [  pidx1  =  0  ,  (18) 

J  A 

which  is  the  same  as  Maupertuis'  principle.  Thus,  de  Broglie  arrives  at 
the  following  statement  (p.  56): 

Fermat's  principle  applied  to  the  phase  wave  is  identical  to  Maupertuis'  prin- 
ciple applied  to  the  moving  body;  the  dynamically  possible  trajectories  of  the 
moving  body  are  identical  to  the  possible  rays  of  the  wave. 

He  adds  that  (p.  56): 

We  think  that  this  idea  of  a  deep  relationship  between  the  two  great  principles 
of  Geometrical  Optics  and  Dynamics  could  be  a  valuable  guide  in  realising  the 
synthesis  of  waves  and  quanta. 

De  Broglie  then  discusses  some  particular  cases:  the  free  particle, 
a  particle  in  an  electrostatic  field,  and  a  particle  in  a  general  electro- 
magnetic field.  He  calculates  the  phase  velocity,  which  depends  on  the 
electromagnetic  potentials.  He  notes  that  the  propagation  of  a  phase 
wave  in  an  external  field  depends  on  the  charge  and  mass  of  the  moving 
body.  And  he  shows  that  the  group  velocity  along  a  ray  is  still  equal  to 
the  velocity  of  the  moving  body. 


48 


De  Broglie's  pilot-wave  theory 


For  the  case  of  an  electron  of  charge  e  and  velocity  v  in  an  electrostatic 
potential  ip,  de  Broglie  writes  down  the  following  expressions  for  the 
frequency  v  and  phase  velocity  vph  of  the  phase  wave  (p.  57): 

v  =  (mc2  +  e(f)/h  ,      wph  =  (mc2  +  e<p)/mv  (19) 


(where  again  m  =  ijiq / y/l  —  v2/c2) .  He  shows  that  v ph  may  be  rewritten 
as  the  free  value  c2/v  multiplied  by  a  factor  hvj (hv  —  etp)  that  depends 
on  the  potential  ip.  The  expressions  ifl9|)  formed  the  starting  point  for 
Schrodinger's  work  on  the  wave  equation  for  de  Broglie's  phase  waves 
(as  reconstructed  by  Mehra  and  Rechenberg  (1987,  pp.  423-5),  see  sec- 
tion Enj. 

While  de  Broglie  does  not  explicitly  say  so  in  his  thesis,  note  that  from 
the  definition  lfl~2|)  of  u>M ,  the  generalised  quantum  relation  (fT6|)  may  be 
written  in  the  form 

p„  =  hdrf  .  (20) 

This  is  what  we  would  now  call  a  relativistic  guidance  equation,  giving 
the  velocity  of  a  particle  in  terms  of  the  gradient  of  the  phase  of  a  pilot 
wave  (where  here  de  Broglie  defines  the  phase  <j>  to  be  dimensionless). 
In  other  words,  the  extended  quantum  relation  is  a  first-order  equation 
of  motion.  In  the  presence  of  an  electromagnetic  field,  the  canonical 
momentum  pM  contains  the  4-vector  potential.  For  a  free  particle,  with 
=  (E/c,—p),  the  guidance  equation  has  components 

E  =  H<j>,    p  =  -W0  ,  (21) 

where  the  spatial  components  may  also  be  written  as 

mv  =     ;  =  -tN(j)  .  22 

y/l-V2/c2 

For  a  plane  wave  of  phase  4>  =  u/t  —  k  •  x,  we  have 

E  =  hu,    p  =  Kk  .  (23) 

Thus,  de  Broglie's  unification  of  the  principles  of  Maupertuis  and 
Fermat  amounts  to  a  new  dynamical  law,  (fl6l)  or  (|20|).  in  which  the 
phase  of  a  guiding  wave  determines  the  particle  velocity.  This  new  law 
of  motion  is  the  essence  of  de  Broglie's  new,  first-order  dynamics. 

Chapter  3  of  de  Broglie's  thesis  is  entitled  'The  quantum  conditions  for 
the  stability  of  orbits'.  De  Broglie  reviews  Bohr's  condition  for  circular 
orbits,  according  to  which  the  angular  momentum  of  the  electron  must 
be  a  multiple  of  h,  or  equivalently  fQn  pedO  —  nh  (pe  conjugate  to  6). 


2.2  A  new  approach  to  particle  dynamics:  1923-24  49 

He  also  reviews  Sommerfeld's  generalisation,  §  Pidqi  —  mh  (integral 
rii)  and  Einstein's  invariant  formulation  §  Y^=i  Pidqi  =  nh  (integral 
n),  De  Broglie  then  provides  an  explanation  for  Einstein's  condition. 
The  trajectory  of  the  moving  body  coincides  with  one  of  the  rays  of 
its  phase  wave,  and  the  phase  wave  moves  along  the  trajectory  with 
a  constant  frequency  (because  the  total  energy  is  constant)  and  with 
a  variable  speed  whose  value  has  been  calculated.  To  have  a  stable 
orbit,  claims  de  Broglie,  the  length  I  of  the  orbit  must  be  in  'resonance' 
with  the  wave:  thus  I  —  nX  in  the  case  of  constant  wavelength,  and 
§{v/vph)dl  =  n  (n  integral)  generally.  De  Broglie  notes  that  this  is 
precisely  the  integral  appearing  in  Fermat's  principle,  which  has  been 
shown  to  be  equal  to  the  integral  giving  the  Maupertuisian  action  divided 
by  h.  The  resonance  condition  is  then  identical  to  the  required  stability 
condition.  For  the  simple  case  of  circular  orbits  in  the  Bohr  atom  de 
Broglie  shows,  using  vph  —  vX  and  h/X  =  m0v,  that  the  resonance 
condition  becomes  §  m^vdl  =  nh  or  mouR2  —  nh  (with  v  =  luR),  as 
originally  given  by  BohrQ  (Note  that  the  simple  argument  commonly 
found  in  textbooks,  about  the  fitting  of  whole  numbers  of  wavelengths 
along  a  Bohr  orbit,  originates  in  this  work  of  de  Broglie's.) 

De  Broglie  thought  that  his  explanation  of  the  stability  or  quantisation 
conditions  constituted  important  evidence  for  his  ideas.  As  he  puts  it 
(p.  65): 

This  beautiful  result,  whose  demonstration  is  so  immediate  when  one  has 
accepted  the  ideas  of  the  preceding  chapter,  is  the  best  justification  we  can 
give  for  our  way  of  attacking  the  problem  of  quanta. 

Certainly,  de  Broglie  had  achieved  a  concrete  realisation  of  his  initial 
intuition  that  quantisation  conditions  for  atomic  energy  levels  could  arise 
from  the  properties  of  waves. 

In  his  chapter  4,  de  Broglie  considers  the  two-body  problem,  in  par- 
ticular the  hydrogen  atom.  He  expresses  concern  over  how  to  define  the 
proper  masses,  taking  into  account  the  interaction  energy.  He  discusses 
the  quantisation  conditions  for  hydrogen  from  a  two-body  point  of  view: 
he  has  two  phase  waves,  one  for  the  electron  and  one  for  the  nucleus. 

The  subject  of  chapter  5  is  light  quanta.  De  Broglie  suggests  that  the 
classical  (electromagnetic)  wave  distribution  in  space  is  some  sort  of  time 
average  over  the  true  distribution  of  phase  waves.  His  light  quantum  is 

a  De  Broglie  also  claims  to  generalise  his  results  from  closed  orbits  to  quasi-periodic 
(or  multi-periodic)  motion:  however,  as  shown  by  Darrigol  (1993),  de  Broglie's 
derivation  is  faulty. 


50 


De  Broglie's  pilot-wave  theory 


assigned  a  very  small  proper  mass:  the  velocity  v  of  the  quantum,  and 
the  phase  velocity  c2/v  of  the  accompanying  phase  wave,  are  then  both 
very  close  to  c. 

De  Broglie  points  out  that  radiation  is  sometimes  observed  to  violate 
rectilinear  propagation:  a  light  wave  striking  the  edge  of  a  screen  diffracts 
into  the  geometrical  shadow,  and  rays  passing  close  to  the  screen  deviate 
from  a  straight  line.  De  Broglie  notes  the  two  historical  explanations  for 
this  phenomenon  —  on  the  one  hand  the  explanation  for  diffraction  given 
by  the  wave  theory,  and  on  the  other  the  explanation  given  by  Newton  in 
his  emission  theory:  'Newton  assumed  [the  existence  of]  a  force  exerted 
by  the  edge  of  the  screen  on  the  corpuscle'  (p.  80).  De  Broglie  asserts 
that  he  can  now  give  a  unified  explanation  for  diffraction,  by  abandoning 
Newton's  first  law  of  motion  (p.  80): 

....  the  ray  of  the  wave  would  curve  as  predicted  by  the  theory  of  waves,  and 
the  moving  body,  for  which  the  principle  of  inertia  would  no  longer  be  valid, 
would  suffer  the  same  deviation  as  the  ray  with  which  its  motion  is  bound  up 
[solidaire]  .... 

De  Broglie's  words  here  deserve  emphasis.  As  is  also  very  clear  in  his 
second  paper  of  the  preceding  year  (see  section  12. 2 .ip.  de  Broglie  regards 
his  explanation  of  particle  diffraction  as  based  on  a  new  form  of  dynamics 
in  which  Newton's  first  law  —  the  principle  that  a  free  body  will  always 
move  uniformly  in  a  straight  line  —  is  abandoned.  At  the  same  time, 
de  Broglie  recognises  that  one  can  always  adopt  a  classical-mechanical 
viewpoint  if  one  wishes  (pp.  80-81): 

....  perhaps  one  could  say  that  the  wall  exerts  a  force  on  it  [the  moving  body] 
if  one  takes  the  curvature  of  the  trajectory  as  a  criterion  for  the  existence  of 
a  force. 

Here,  de  Broglie  recognises  that  one  may  still  think  in  Newtonian  terms, 
if  one  continues  to  identify  acceleration  as  indicative  of  the  presence  of 
a  force.  Similarly,  as  we  shall  see,  in  1927  de  Broglie  notes  that  his  pilot- 
wave  dynamics  may  if  one  wishes  be  written  in  Newtonian  form  with  a 
quantum  potential.  But  de  Broglie's  preferred  approach,  throughout  his 
work  in  the  period  1923-27,  is  to  abandon  Newton's  first  law  and  base 
his  dynamics  on  velocity  rather  than  on  acceleration. 

After  considering  the  Doppler  effect,  reflection  by  a  moving  mirror, 
and  radiation  pressure,  all  from  a  photon  viewpoint,  de  Broglie  turns  to 
the  phenomena  of  wave  optics,  noting  that  (p.  86): 

The  stumbling  block  of  the  theory  of  light  quanta  is  the  explanation  of  the 
phenomena  that  constitute  wave  optics. 


2.2  A  new  approach  to  particle  dynamics:  1923-24  51 

Here  it  becomes  apparent  that,  despite  his  understanding  of  how  non- 
rectilinear  particle  trajectories  arise  during  diffraction  and  interference, 
de  Broglie  is  not  sure  of  the  details  of  how  to  explain  the  observed  bright 
and  dark  fringes  in  diffraction  and  interference  experiments  with  light. 
In  particular,  de  Broglie  did  not  have  a  precise  theory  of  the  assumed 
statistical  relationship  between  his  phase  waves  and  the  electromagnetic 
field.  Even  so,  he  went  on  to  make  what  he  called  'vague  suggestions' 
(p.  87)  towards  a  detailed  theory  of  optical  interference.  De  Broglie's 
idea  was  that  the  phase  waves  would  determine  the  probability  for  the 
light  quanta  to  interact  with  the  atoms  constituting  the  equipment  used 
to  observe  the  radiation,  in  such  a  way  as  to  account  for  the  observed 
fringes  (p.  88): 

....  the  probability  of  reactions  between  atoms  of  matter  and  atoms  of  light  is 
at  each  point  tied  to  the  resultant  (or  rather  to  the  mean  value  of  this)  of  one 
of  the  vectors  characterising  the  phase  wave;  where  this  resultant  vanishes  the 
light  is  undetectable;  there  is  interference.  One  then  conceives  that  an  atom 
of  light  traversing  a  region  where  the  phase  waves  interfere  will  be  able  to  be 
absorbed  by  matter  at  certain  points  and  not  at  others.  This  is  the  still  very 
qualitative  principle  of  an  explanation  of  interference  

As  we  shall  see  in  the  next  section,  after  completing  his  thesis  de  Broglie 
arrived  at  a  simpler  explanation  of  optical  interference  fringes. 

The  final  section  of  chapter  5  considers  the  explanation  of  Bohr's 
frequency  condition  hv  —  E\  —  E^  for  the  light  emitted  by  an  atomic 
transition  from  energy  state  E\  to  energy  state  E^.  De  Broglie  derives 
this  from  the  assumption  that  each  transition  involves  the  emission  of  a 
single  light  quantum  of  energy  E  =  hv  (together  with  the  assumption 
of  energy  conservation) . 

De  Broglie's  chapter  6  discusses  the  scattering  of  X-  and  7-rays. 

In  his  chapter  7,  de  Broglie  turns  to  statistical  mechanics,  and  shows 
how  the  concept  of  statistical  equilibrium  is  to  be  modified  in  the  pre- 
sence of  phase  waves.  If  each  particle  or  atom  in  a  gas  is  accompanied 
by  a  phase  wave,  then  a  box  of  gas  will  be  'criss-crossed  in  all  directions' 
(p.  110)  by  the  waves.  De  Broglie  finds  it  natural  to  assume  that  the 
only  stable  phase  waves  in  the  box  will  be  those  that  form  stationary  or 
standing  waves,  and  that  only  these  will  be  relevant  to  thermodynamic 
equilibrium.  He  illustrates  his  idea  with  a  simple  example  of  molecules 
moving  in  one  dimension,  confined  to  an  interval  of  length  I.  In  the 
nonrelativistic  limit,  each  phase  wave  has  a  wavelength  A  =  h/mov  and 
the  'resonance  condition'  is  I  =  n\  with  n  integral.  Writing  vo  =  h/mol, 
one  then  has  v  =  uvq.  As  de  Broglie  notes  (p.  112):  'The  speed  will  then 


52 


De  Broglie's  pilot-wave  theory 


be  able  to  take  only  values  equal  to  integer  multiples  of  vq\  (This  is,  of 
course,  the  well-known  quantisation  of  momentum  for  particles  confined 
to  a  box.)  De  Broglie  then  argues  that  a  velocity  element  Sv  corresponds 
to  a  number  Sn  =  (mol/h)Sv  of  states  of  a  molecule  (compatible  with 
the  existence  of  stationary  phase  waves),  so  that  an  element  mQSx6v 
of  phase  space  volume  corresponds  to  a  number  moSxSv/h  of  possible 
states.  Generalising  to  three  dimensions,  de  Broglie  is  led  to  take  the 
element  of  phase  space  volume  divided  by  h3  as  the  measure  of  the 
number  of  possible  states  of  a  molecule,  as  assumed  by  Planck. 

De  Broglie  then  turns  to  the  photon  gas,  for  which  he  obtains  Wien's 
law.  He  claims  that,  in  order  to  get  the  Planck  law,  the  following  further 
hypothesis  is  required  (p.  116): 

If  two  or  several  atoms  [of  light]  have  phase  waves  that  are  exactly  superposed, 
of  which  one  can  therefore  say  that  they  are  transported  by  the  same  wave, 
their  motions  can  no  longer  be  considered  as  entirely  independent  and  these 
atoms  can  no  longer  be  treated  as  separate  units  in  calculating  the  probabili- 
ties. 

In  de  Broglie's  approach,  the  stationary  phase  waves  play  the  role  of  the 
elementary  objects  of  statistical  mechanics.  De  Broglie  defines  stationary 
waves  as  a  superposition  of  two  waves  of  the  form 


sm 
cos 


(x         \~\  sin    r      /         x  \~\ 

vt--  +  (f>0)\     and     ^   |2?r  [vt  +  -  +  cfoJJ  ,  (24) 


where  4>q  can  take  any  value  from  0  to  1  and  v  takes  one  of  the  allowed 
values.  Each  elementary  wave  can  carry  any  number  0, 1,  2, ...  of  atoms, 
and  the  probability  of  carrying  n  atoms  is  given  by  the  Boltzmann  factor 
e-nhvjkT _  Applying  this  method  to  a  gas  of  light  quanta,  de  Broglie 
claims  to  derive  the  Planck  distributiono 

De  Broglie's  thesis  ends  with  a  summary  and  conclusions  (pp.  125-8). 
The  seeds  of  the  problem  of  quanta  have  been  shown,  he  claims,  to  be 
contained  in  the  historical  'parallelism  of  the  corpuscular  and  wave-like 
conceptions  of  radiation'.  He  has  postulated  a  periodic  phenomenon 
associated  with  each  energy  fragment,  and  shown  how  relativity  requires 
us  to  associate  a  phase  wave  with  every  uniformly  moving  body.  For  the 
case  of  non-uniform  motion,  Maupertuis'  principle  and  Fermat's  princi- 
ple 'could  well  be  two  aspects  of  a  single  law',  and  this  new  approach 
to  dynamics  led  to  an  extension  of  the  quantum  relation,  giving  the 
speed  of  a  phase  wave  in  an  electromagnetic  field.  The  most  important 

a  Again,  as  shown  by  Darrigol  (1993),  de  Broglie's  application  of  statistical 
mechanics  contains  some  errors. 


2.2  A  new  approach  to  particle  dynamics:  1923-24  53 


consequence  is  the  interpretation  of  the  quantum  conditions  for  atomic 
orbits  in  terms  of  a  resonance  of  the  phase  wave  along  the  trajectories: 
'this  is  the  first  physically  plausible  explanation  proposed  for  the  Bohr- 
Sommerfeld  stability  conditions'.  A  'qualitative  theory  of  interference' 
has  been  suggested.  The  phase  wave  has  been  introduced  into  statistical 
mechanics,  yielding  a  derivation  of  Planck's  phase  volume  element,  and 
of  the  blackbody  spectrum.  De  Broglie  has,  he  claims,  perhaps  contribu- 
ted to  a  unification  of  the  opposing  conceptions  of  waves  and  particles, 
in  which  the  dynamics  of  the  material  point  is  understood  in  terms  of 
wave  propagation.  He  adds  that  the  ideas  need  further  development:  first 
of  all,  a  new  electromagnetic  theory  is  required,  that  takes  into  account 
the  discontinuous  structure  of  radiation  and  the  physical  nature  of  phase 
waves,  with  Maxwell's  theory  emerging  as  a  statistical  approximation. 
The  final  paragraph  of  de  Broglie's  thesis  emphasises  the  incompleteness 
of  his  theory  at  the  time: 

I  have  deliberately  left  rather  vague  the  definition  of  the  phase  wave,  and  of 
the  periodic  phenomenon  of  which  it  must  in  some  sense  be  the  translation, 
as  well  as  that  of  the  light  quantum.  The  present  theory  should  therefore  be 
considered  as  one  whose  physical  content  is  not  entirely  specified,  rather  than 
as  a  consistent  and  definitively  constituted  doctrine. 

As  de  Broglie's  concluding  paragraph  makes  clear,  his  theory  of  1924 
was  rather  abstract.  There  was  no  specified  basis  for  the  phase  waves 
(they  were  certainly  not  regarded  as  'material'  waves);  nor  was  any 
particular  wave  equation  suggested.  It  should  also  be  noted  that  at  this 
time  de  Broglie's  waves  were  real-valued  functions  of  space  and  time, 
of  the  form  oc  sa\{uut  —  k  •  x),  with  a  real  oscillating  amplitude.  They 
were  not  complex  waves  oc  e*(k  x-wt)  0f  uniform  amplitude.  Thus,  de 
Broglie's  'phase  waves'  had  an  oscillating  amplitude  as  well  as  a  phase. 
(De  Broglie  seems  to  have  called  them  'phase  waves'  only  because  of  his 
theorem  of  phase  harmony.)  Note  also  that,  in  his  treatment  of  particles 
in  a  box,  de  Broglie  superposes  waves  propagating  in  opposite  directions, 
yielding  stationary  waves  whose  amplitudes  oscillate  in  time. 

In  his  thesis  de  Broglie  does  not  explicitly  discuss  diffraction  or  inter- 
ference experiments  with  electrons,  even  though  in  his  second  communi- 
cation of  1923  (de  Broglie  1923b)  he  had  suggested  electron  diffraction 
as  an  experimental  test.  According  to  de  Broglie's  later  recollections  (L. 
de  Broglie,  AHQP  Interview,  7  January  1963,  p.  6), 3  at  his  thesis  defence 
on  25  November  1924: 

Mr  Jean  Perrin,  who  chaired  the  committee,  asked  me  if  my  ideas  could  lead  to 


54 


De  Broglie's  pilot-wave  theory 


experimental  confirmation.  I  replied  that  yes  they  could,  and  I  mentioned  the 
diffraction  of  electrons  by  crystals.  Soon  afterwards,  I  advised  Mr  Dauvillier  .... 
to  try  the  experiment,  but,  absorbed  by  other  research,  he  did  not  do  it.  I  do 
not  know  if  he  believed,  or  if  he  said  to  himself  that  it  was  perhaps  very 
uncertain,  that  he  was  going  to  go  to  a  lot  of  trouble  for  nothing  —  it's 

possible        But  the  following  year  it  was  discovered  in  America  by  Davisson 

and  Germer. 

2.2.3  Optical  interference  fringes:  November  1924 

On  17  November  1924,  just  a  few  days  before  de  Broglie  defended  his 
thesis,  a  further  communication  of  de  Broglie's  was  presented  to  the 
Academy  of  Sciences:  entitled  'On  the  dynamics  of  the  light  quantum 
and  interference',  and  published  in  the  Comptes  Rendus,  this  short  note 
gave  a  new  and  improved  account  of  optical  interference  in  terms  of  light 
quanta  (de  Broglie  1924d). 

De  Broglie  began  his  note  by  recalling  his  unsatisfactory  discussion  of 
optical  interference  in  his  recent  work  on  the  quantum  theory  (p.  1039): 

....  I  had  not  reached  a  truly  satisfying  explanation  for  the  phenomena  of 
wave  optics  which,  in  principle,  all  come  down  to  interference.  I  limited  myself 
to  putting  forward  a  certain  connection  between  the  state  of  interference  of 
the  waves  and  the  probability  for  the  absorption  of  light  quanta  by  matter. 
This  viewpoint  now  seems  to  me  a  bit  artificial  and  I  tend  towards  adopting 
another,  more  in  harmony  with  the  broad  outlines  of  my  theory  itself. 

As  we  have  seen,  in  his  thesis  de  Broglie  was  unsure  about  how  to 
account  for  the  bright  and  dark  fringes  observed  in  optical  interference 
experiments.  He  did  not  have  a  theory  of  the  electromagnetic  field, 
which  he  assumed  emerged  as  some  sort  of  average  over  his  phase  waves. 
To  account  for  optical  fringes,  he  had  suggested  that  the  phase  waves 
somehow  determined  the  probability  for  interactions  between  photons 
and  the  atoms  in  the  apparatus.  Now,  after  completing  his  thesis,  he 
felt  he  had  a  better  explanation,  that  was  based  purely  on  the  spatial 
distribution  of  the  photon  trajectories. 

De  Broglie's  note  continues  by  outlining  his  'new  dynamics',  in  which 
the  energy-momentum  4-vector  of  every  material  point  is  proportional 
to  the  'characteristic'  4-vector  of  an  associated  wave,  even  when  the 
wave  undergoes  interference  or  diffraction.  He  then  gives  his  new  view 
of  interference  fringes  (p.  1040): 

The  rays  predicted  by  the  wave  theories  would  then  be  in  every  case  the 
possible  trajectories  of  the  quantum.  In  the  phenomena  of  interference,  the  rays 


2.2  A  new  approach  to  particle  dynamics:  1923-24  55 

become  concentrated  in  those  regions  called  'bright  fringes'  and  become  diluted 
in  those  regions  called  'dark  fringes'.  In  my  first  explanation  of  interference, 
the  dark  fringes  were  dark  because  the  action  of  fragments  of  light  on  matter 
was  zero  there;  in  my  current  explanation,  these  fringes  are  dark  because  the 
number  of  quanta  passing  through  them  is  small  or  zero. 

Here,  then,  de  Broglie  explains  bright  and  dark  fringes  simply  in  terms  of 
a  high  or  low  density  of  photon  trajectories  in  the  corresponding  regions. 

When  de  Broglie  speaks  of  the  trajectories  being  concentrated  and 
diluted  in  regions  of  bright  and  dark  fringes  respectively,  he  presumably 
had  in  mind  that  the  number  density  of  particles  in  an  interference  zone 
should  be  proportional  to  the  classical  wave  intensity,  though  he  does 
not  say  this  explicitly.  We  can  discern  the  essence  of  the  more  precise 
and  complete  explanation  of  optical  interference  given  by  de  Broglie 
three  years  later  in  his  Solvay  report:  there,  de  Broglie  has  the  same 
photon  trajectories,  with  a  number  density  specified  as  proportional 
to  the  amplitude-squared  of  the  guiding  wave  (see  pp.  13831  f..  and  our 
discussion  in  section  [6.1. ip. 

In  his  note  of  November  1924,  de  Broglie  goes  on  to  illustrate  his  pro- 
posal for  the  case  of  Young's  interference  experiment  with  two  pinholes 
acting  as  point  sources.  De  Broglie  cites  the  well-known  facts  that  in 
this  case  the  surfaces  of  equal  phase  are  ellipsoids  with  the  pinholes  as 
foci,  and  that  the  rays  (which  are  normal  to  the  ellipsoidal  surfaces) 
are  concentrated  on  hyperboloids  of  constructive  interference  where  the 
classical  intensity  has  maxima.  He  then  notes  (p.  1040): 

Let  r\  and  be  the  distances  from  a  point  in  space  to  the  two  holes  and 
let  tp  be  the  function  \(r\  +  J*2),  which  is  constant  on  each  surface  of  equal 
phase.  One  easily  shows  that  the  phase  velocity  of  the  waves  along  a  ray  is 
equal  to  the  value  it  would  have  in  the  case  of  free  propagation  divided  by  the 
derivative  of  ip  taken  along  the  ray;  as  for  the  speed  of  the  quantum,  it  will 
be  equal  to  the  speed  of  free  motion  multiplied  by  the  same  derivative. 

De  Broglie  gives  no  further  details,  but  these  are  easily  reconstructed. 
For  an  incident  beam  of  wavelength  A  =  27r/fc,  each  pinhole  acts  as  a 
source  of  a  spherical  wave  of  wavelength  A,  yielding  a  resultant  wave 
proportional  to  the  real  part  of 

gi(kri—u>t)  gi(kr2—iot) 


If  the  pinholes  have  a  separation  d,  then  at  large  distances  (n,  r2  »  d) 


56  De  Broglie's  pilot-wave  theory 

from  the  screen  the  resultant  wave  may  be  approximated  as 

i(kr-ujt)  /  kd  \ 

2e-—coS(^6)  (26) 

where  8  is  the  (small)  angular  deviation  from  the  normal  to  the  screen. 
The  amplitude  shows  the  well-known  interference  pattern.  As  for  the 
phase  <j)  =  kr  —  ujt,  with  r  =  |(ri  +ra),  the  surfaces  of  equal  phase  are 
indeed  the  well-known  ellipsoids.  Further,  the  phase  velocity  is  given  by 

_  \d</>/dt\      w  1 
ph"    |W|    ~  k  \Vr\  ~  |Vr|  '  [  ' 

while  de  Broglie's  particle  velocity  —  given  by  (|22|)  —  has  magnitude 

h\Vcj>\      h\V4>\       ok  .„  , 
v  =-*-!!.=      1  p   =c2-  Vr ■  =  c  Vr  28 

(where  m  is  the  relativistic  photon  mass),  in  agreement  with  de  Broglie's 
assertions. 

At  the  end  of  his  note,  de  Broglie  comments  that  this  method  may  be 
applied  to  the  study  of  scattering. 

In  November  1924,  then,  de  Broglie  understood  how  interfering  phase 
waves  would  affect  photon  trajectories,  causing  them  to  bunch  together 
in  regions  coinciding  with  the  observed  bright  fringes. 

Note  that  in  this  paper  de  Broglie  treats  his  phase  waves  as  if  they  were 
a  direct  representation  of  the  electromagnetic  field.  In  his  discussion  of 
Young's  interference  experiment,  he  has  phase  waves  emerging  from  the 
two  holes  and  interfering,  and  he  identifies  the  interference  fringes  of  his 
phase  waves  with  optical  interference  fringes.  However,  he  seems  quite 
aware  that  this  is  a  simplification@  remarking  that  'the  whole  theory  will 
become  truly  clear  only  if  one  manages  to  define  the  structure  of  the  light 
wave'.  De  Broglie  is  still  not  sure  about  the  precise  relationship  between 
his  phase  waves  and  light  waves,  a  situation  that  persists  even  until 
the  fifth  Solvay  conference:  there,  while  he  gives  (pp.  13831  f.)  a  precise 
account  of  optical  interference  in  his  report,  he  points  out  (p.  I508[l  that 
the  connection  between  his  guiding  wave  and  the  electromagnetic  field 
is  still  unknown. 


a  De  Broglie  may  have  thought  of  this  as  analogous  to  scalar  wave  optics,  which 
predicts  the  correct  optical  interference  fringes  by  treating  the  electromagnetic 
field  simply  as  a  scalar  wave. 


2.3  Towards  a  complete  pilot-wave  dynamics:  1925-27  57 

2.3  Towards  a  complete  pilot-wave  dynamics:  1925  27 

On  16  December  1924,  Einstein  wrote  to  LorentzQ 

A  younger  brother  of  the  de  Broglie  known  to  us  [Maurice  de  Broglie]  has  made 
a  very  interesting  attempt  to  interpret  the  Bohr-Sommerfeld  quantization  rules 
(Paris  Dissertation,  1924).  I  believe  that  it  is  the  first  feeble  ray  of  light 
to  illuminate  this,  the  worst  of  our  physical  riddles.  I  have  also  discovered 
something  that  supports  his  construction. 

What  Einstein  had  discovered,  in  support  of  de  Broglie's  ideas,  appeared 
in  the  second  of  his  famous  papers  on  the  quantum  theory  of  the  ideal 
gas  (Einstein  1925a).  Einstein  showed  that  the  fluctuations  associated 
with  the  new  Bose-Einstein  statistics  contained  two  distinct  terms  that 
could  be  interpreted  as  particle-like  and  wave-like  contributions  —  just 
as  Einstein  had  shown,  many  years  earlier,  for  blackbody  radiation. 
Einstein  argued  that  the  wave-like  contribution  should  be  interpreted 
in  terms  of  de  Broglie's  matter  waves,  and  he  cited  de  Broglie's  thesis. 
It  was  largely  through  this  paper  by  Einstein  that  de  Broglie's  work 
became  known  outside  France. 

In  the  same  paper,  Einstein  suggested  that  a  molecular  beam  would 
undergo  diffraction  through  a  sufficiently  small  aperture.  De  Broglie  had 
already  made  a  similar  suggestion  for  electrons,  in  his  second  com- 
munication to  the  Comptes  Rendus  (de  Broglie  1923b).  Even  so,  in 
their  report  at  the  fifth  Solvay  conference,  Born  and  Heisenberg  state 
that  in  his  gas  theory  paper  Einstein  'deduced  from  de  Broglie's  daring 
theory  the  possibility  of  "diffraction"  of  material  particles'  (p.  14251). 
giving  the  incorrect  impression  that  Einstein  had  been  the  first  to  see 
this  consequence  of  de  Broglie's  theory.  It  seems  likely  that  Born  and 
Heisenberg  did  not  notice  de  Broglie's  early  papers  in  the  Comptes 
Rendus. 

In  1925  Elsasser  —  a  student  of  Born's  in  Gottingen  —  read  de 
Broglie's  thesis.  Like  most  others  outside  France,  Elsasser  had  heard 
about  de  Broglie's  thesis  through  Einstein's  gas  theory  papers.  Elsasser 
suspected  that  two  observed  experimental  anomalies  could  be  explained 
by  de  Broglie's  new  dynamics.  First,  the  Ramsauer  effect  —  the  surpri- 
singly large  mean  free  path  of  low- velocity  electrons  in  gases  —  which 
Elsasser  thought  could  be  explained  by  electron  interference.  Second,  the 
intensity  maxima  observed  by  Davisson  and  Kunsman  at  certain  angles 
of  reflection  of  electrons  from  metal  surfaces,  which  had  been  assumed 
to  be  caused  by  atomic  shell  structure,  and  which  Elsasser  thought  were 


a  Quoted  in  Mehra  and  Rechenberg  (1982a,  p.  604). 


58 


De  Broglie's  pilot-wave  theory 


caused  by  electron  diffraction.  Elsasser  published  a  short  note  sketching 
these  ideas  in  Die  Naturwissenschaften  (Elsasser  1925).  Elsasser  then 
tried  to  design  an  experiment  to  test  the  ideas  further,  with  low-velocity 
electrons,  but  never  carried  it  out.  According  to  Heisenberg's  later  re- 
collection, Elsasser's  supervisor  Born  was  sceptical  about  the  reality  of 
matter  waves,  because  they  seemed  in  conflict  with  the  observed  particle 
tracks  in  cloud  chambers^ 

On  3  November  1925,  Schrodinger  wrote  to  Einstein:  'A  few  days 
ago  I  read  with  the  greatest  interest  the  ingenious  thesis  of  Louis  de 
Broglie  ....  'Q  Schrodinger  too  had  become  interested  in  de  Broglie's 
thesis  by  reading  Einstein's  gas  theory  papers,  and  he  set  about  trying 
to  find  the  wave  equation  for  de  Broglie's  phase  waves.  As  we  have  seen 
(sectionr2,2.2[l.  in  his  thesis  de  Broglie  had  shown  that,  in  an  electrostatic 
potential  ip,  the  phase  wave  of  an  electron  of  charge  e  and  velocity  v 
would  have  (see  equation  lfl9jl)  frequency  v  =  (mc2  +  V)/h  and  phase 
velocity  vph  =  (mc2  +  V)/mv,  where  m  =  mo/ yl  —  v2 /c2  and  V  —  ecp 
is  the  potential  energy.  These  expressions  for  v  and  vph,  given  by  de 
Broglie,  formed  the  starting  point  for  Schrodinger's  work  on  the  wave 
equation. 

Schrodinger  took  de  Broglie's  formulas  for  v  and  wph  and  applied  them 
to  the  hydrogen  atom,  with  a  Coulomb  field  ip  =  —  e/r[3  Using  the 
formula  for  v  to  eliminate  v,  Schrodinger  rewrote  the  expression  for  the 
phase  velocity  wph  purely  in  terms  of  the  frequency  v  and  the  electron- 
proton  distance  r: 

hv  I 
«Ph  =  ,  (29) 

m°c  ^J{hv/m0c2  ~  V/m0c2)2  -  1 

(where  V  =  —e2/r).  Then,  writing  de  Broglie's  phase  wave  as  ip  = 
V>(x,  t),  he  took  the  equation  for  ip  to  be  the  usual  wave  equation 

V2^^  (30) 


a  For  this  and  further  details  concerning  Elsasser,  see  Mehra  and  Rechenberg  (1982a, 

pp.  624-7).  See  also  the  discussion  in  section [5.4.21 
a  Quoted  in  Mehra  and  Rechenberg  (1987,  p.  412). 

b  Here  we  follow  the  analysis  by  Mehra  and  Rechenberg  (1987,  pp.  423-5)  of 
what  they  call  Schrodinger's  'earliest  preserved  [unpublished]  manuscript  on  wave 
mechanics'.  Similar  reasoning  is  found  in  a  letter  from  Pauli  to  Jordan  of  12  April 
1926  (Pauli  1979,  pp.  315-20). 


2.3  Towards  a  complete  pilot-wave  dynamics:  1925-27  59 


with  phase  velocity  vph.  Assuming  ip  to  have  a  time  dependence  oc 
e~27rwt  ,  Schrodinger  then  obtained  the  time- independent  equation 

W  =  (31) 

with  wph  given  by  i|29p.  This  was  Schrodinger's  original  (relativistic) 
equation  for  the  energy  states  of  the  hydrogen  atom. 

As  is  well  known,  Schrodinger  found  that  the  energy  levels  predicted 
by  (|3Tj)  —  that  is,  the  eigenvalues  hv  —  disagreed  with  experiment. 
He  then  adopted  a  nonrelativistic  approximation,  and  found  that  this 
yielded  the  correct  energy  levels  for  the  low-energy  limit. 

It  is  in  fact  straightforward  to  obtain  the  correct  nonrelativistic  limit. 
Writing  E  =  hv  —  tuqc2,  in  the  low-energy  limit  \E\  /m$c2  «  1  and 
\V\  /tiiqc2  «  1,  we  have 

£-£(S-V),  (32) 

so  that  lf3lj)  reduces  to  what  we  now  know  as  the  nonrelativistic  time- 
independent  Schrodinger  equation  for  a  single  particle  in  a  potential  V: 

h2 


-  W  +  Vip  =  Ei/>  .  (33) 
2mo 

Historically  speaking,  then,  Schrodinger's  original  equation  ([3T]l  for 
stationary  states  amounted  to  a  mathematical  transcription  —  into  the 
language  of  the  standard  wave  equation  ([30)1  —  of  de  Broglie's  expressi- 
ons for  the  frequency  and  phase  velocity  of  an  electron  wave.  By  studying 
the  eigenvalue  problem  of  this  equation  in  its  nonrelativistic  form  (|33"ll , 
Schrodinger  was  able  to  show  that  the  eigenvalues  agreed  remarkably 
well  with  the  observed  features  of  the  hydrogen  spectrum.  Thus,  by 
adopting  the  formalism  of  a  wave  equation,  Schrodinger  transformed  de 
Broglie's  elementary  derivation  of  the  quantisation  of  energy  levels  into 
a  rigorous  and  powerful  technique. 

The  time-dependent  Schrodinger  equation 

with  a  single  time  derivative,  was  eventually  obtained  by  Schrodinger 
in  his  fourth  paper  on  wave  mechanics,  completed  in  June  1926  (Schro- 
dinger 1926g).  The  path  taken  by  Schrodinger  in  these  four  published 
papers  was  rather  tortuous.  In  the  fourth  paper,  he  actually  began  by 
considering  a  wave  equation  that  was  of  second  order  in  time  and  of 


60 


De  Broglie's  pilot-wave  theory 


fourth  order  in  the  spatial  derivatives.  However,  he  eventually  settled 
on  (|34p,  deriving  it  by  the  following  argument:  for  a  wave  with  time 
dependence  oc  e-(l/n)Et^  one  may  write  the  term  Etp  in  (|33|)  as  ihdip/dt 
and  thus  obtain  1|34[1.  which  must  be  valid  for  any  E  and  therefore  for 
any  V  that  can  be  expanded  as  a  Fourier  time  seriesQ  The  price  paid 
for  having  an  equation  that  was  of  only  first  order  in  time  was  that 
had  to  be  complex. 

In  retrospect,  the  time-dependent  Schrodinger  equation  for  a  free 
particle  ( (J34J)  with  V  =  0)  may  be  immediately  derived  as  the  simplest 
wave  equation  obeyed  by  a  complex  plane  wave  e!'k'x~wt'  with  the 
nonrelativistic  dispersion  relation  huj  —  (hk)2 /2m  (that  is,  E  =  p2 /2m 
combined  with  de  Broglie's  relations  E  =  Huj  and  p  =  Hk).  This  deriva- 
tion is,  in  fact,  often  found  in  textbooks. 

Not  only  did  Schrodinger  adopt  de  Broglie's  idea  that  quantised  energy 
levels  could  be  explained  in  terms  of  waves,  he  also  took  up  de  Broglie's 
conviction  that  classical  mechanics  was  merely  the  short-wavelength 
limit  of  a  broader  theory.  Thus  in  his  second  paper  on  wave  mechanics 
Schrodinger  (1926c,  p.  497)  wrote: 

Maybe  our  classical  mechanics  is  the  complete  analogue  of  geometrical  optics 
and  as  such  is  wrong,  not  in  agreement  with  reality;  it  fails  as  soon  as  the  radii 
of  curvature  and  the  dimensions  of  the  trajectory  are  no  longer  large  compared 
to  a  certain  wavelength,  which  has  a  real  meaning  in  the  g-space.  Then  one  has 
to  look  for  an  'undulatory  mechanics'  — 0  and  the  most  natural  path  towards 
this  is  surely  the  wave-theoretical  elaboration  of  the  Hamiltonian  picture. 

Schrodinger  used  the  optical-mechanical  analogy  as  a  guide  in  the  con- 
struction of  wave  equations  for  atomic  systems,  particularly  in  his  second 
paper.  Schrodinger  tended  to  think  of  the  optical-mechanical  analogy  in 
terms  of  the  Hamilton- Jacobi  equation  and  the  equation  of  geometrical 
optics,  whereas  de  Broglie  tended  to  think  of  it  in  terms  of  the  principles 
of  Maupertuis  and  Fermat.  These  are  of  course  two  different  ways  of 
drawing  the  same  analogy. 

While  Schrodinger  took  up  and  developed  many  of  de  Broglie's  ideas, 
he  did  not  accept  de  Broglie's  view  that  the  particle  was  localised  within 
an  extended  wave.  In  effect,  Schrodinger  removed  the  particle  trajec- 

a  Actually,  Schrodinger  considered  the  time  dependence  oc  e±(l/'i)Bt5  so  that  Etp  = 
±ihdip/dt,  leading  to  two  possible  wave  equations  differing  by  the  sign  of  i.  He 
wrote:  '  We  shall  require  that  the  complex  wave  function  tf>  satisfy  one  of  these  two 
equations.  Since  at  the  same  time  the  complex  conjugate  function  ip  satisfies  the 
other  equation,  one  may  consider  the  real  part  of  ip  as  a  real  wave  function  (if  one 
needs  it)'  (Schrodinger  f926g,  p.  ff2,  original  italics). 

a  Here  Schrodinger  adds  a  footnote:  'Cf.  also  A.  Einstein,  Berl.  Ber.,  pp.  9  ff.  (f925)'. 


2.3  Towards  a  complete  pilot-wave  dynamics:  1925-27  61 


tories  from  de  Broglie's  theory,  and  worked  only  with  the  extended 
(non-singular)  waves.  (For  a  detailed  discussion  of  Schrodinger's  work, 
see  chapter  |H) 

In  the  period  1925-26,  then,  many  of  the  ideas  in  de  Broglie's  thesis 
were  taken  up  and  developed  by  other  workers,  especially  Schrodinger. 
But  what  of  de  Broglie  himself?  Unlike  in  his  earlier  work,  during  this 
period  de  Broglie  considered  specific  equations  for  his  waves.  Like  Schro- 
dinger, he  took  standard  relativistic  wave  equations  as  his  starting  point. 
Unlike  Schrodinger,  however,  de  Broglie  was  guided  by  the  following  two 
ideas.  First,  that  particles  are  really  small  singular  regions,  of  very  large 
wave  amplitude,  within  an  extended  wave.  Second,  that  the  motion  of  the 
particles  —  or  singularities  —  must  in  some  sense  satisfy  the  condition 

Maupertuis  =  Fermat  ,  (35) 

so  as  to  bring  about  a  synthesis  of  the  dynamics  of  particles  with  the 
theory  of  waves,  along  the  lines  already  sketched  in  de  Broglie's  thesis. 
This  work  came  to  a  head  in  a  remarkable  paper  published  in  May  1927, 
to  which  we  now  turn. 

2.3.1   'Structure':  Journal  de  Physique,  May  1927 

In  the  last  number  of  the  Journal  de  Physique,  a  paper 
by  de  Broglie  has  appeared  ....  de  Broglie  attempts  here 
to  reconcile  the  full  determinism  of  physical  processes 
with  the  dualism  between  waves  and  corpuscles  ....  even  if 
this  paper  by  de  Broglie  is  off  the  mark  (and  I  hope  that 
actually),  still  it  is  very  rich  in  ideas  and  very  sharp,  and 
on  a  much  higher  level  than  the  childish  papers  by 
Schrodinger,  who  even  today  still  thinks  he  may  .... 
abolish  material  points. 

Pauli,  letter  to  Bohr,  6  August  1927  (Pauli  1979, 

pp.  404-5) 

What  we  now  know  as  pilot-wave  theory  first  appears  in  a  paper  by  de 
Broglie  (1927b)  entitled  'Wave  mechanics  and  the  atomic  structure  of 
matter  and  of  radiation',  which  was  published  in  Journal  de  Physique 
in  May  1927,  and  which  we  shall  discuss  in  detail  in  this  sectionjf]  We 
shall  refer  to  this  crucial  paper  as  'Structure'  for  short. 

In  'Structure',  de  Broglie  presents  a  theory  of  particles  as  moving 

a  Again,  we  do  not  always  follow  de  Broglie's  notation.  Note  also  that  de  Broglie 
moves  back  and  forth  between  solutions  of  the  form  /  cos  0  and  solutions  'written 
in  complex  form'  /e1^. 


62  De  Broglie's  pilot-wave  theory 

singularities.  It  is  argued,  on  the  basis  of  certain  assumptions,  that  the 
equations  of  what  we  now  call  pilot- wave  dynamics  will  emerge  from  this 
theory.  At  the  end  of  the  paper  de  Broglie  proposes,  as  a  provisional 
theory,  simply  taking  the  equations  of  pilot-wave  dynamics  as  given, 
without  trying  to  derive  them  from  something  deeper.  It  is  this  last, 
provisional  theory  that  de  Broglie  presents  a  few  months  later  at  the 
fifth  Solvay  conference. 

For  historical  completeness  we  should  point  out  that,  according  to  a 
footnote  to  the  introduction,  'Structure'  was  'the  development  of  two 
notes'  published  earlier  in  Comptes  Rendus  (de  Broglie  1926,  1927a). 
The  first,  of  28  August  1926,  considers  a  model  of  photons  as  moving 
singularities:  arguments  are  given  (similar  to  those  found  in  'Structure') 
leading  to  the  usual  velocity  formula,  and  to  the  conclusion  that  the 
probability  density  of  photons  is  proportional  to  the  classical  wave  in- 
tensity. The  second  note,  of  31  January  1927,  sketches  analogous  ideas 
for  material  bodies  in  an  external  potential,  with  the  probability  density 
now  proportional  to  the  amplitude-squared  of  the  wave  function.  Unlike 
'Structure',  neither  of  these  notes  contains  the  suggestion  that  pilot-wave 
theory  may  be  adopted  as  a  provisional  view. 

We  now  turn  to  a  detailed  analysis  of  de  Broglie's  'Structure'  paper. 
De  Broglie  first  considers  a  'material  point  of  proper  mass  too'  moving  in 
free  space  with  a  constant  velocity  v  and  represented  by  a  wave  u(x,  t) 
satisfying  what  we  would  now  call  the  Klein-Gordon  equation 

a       1  d2u  4ttS2 

with  v0  =  moc2/h.  De  Broglie  considers  solutions  of  the  form 

it(x,  t)  =  /(x  -  vi)  cos  -^-<?KX>  *)  >  (37) 

where  the  amplitude  /  is  singular  at  the  location  x  =  vt  of  the  moving 
body  and  the  phas^f] 

0(x>t)  =  -7==^=(t--5-)  38 

y/l  -  v2/c2  \        cl  J 

is  equal  to  the  classical  Hamiltonian  action  of  the  particle.  A  single 
particle  is  represented  by  a  wave  f37j) ,  where  the  moving  singularity  has 
velocity  v  and  the  phase  0(x,  t)  is  extended  over  all  space. 

De  Broglie  then  considers  an  ensemble  (or  'cloud')  of  similar  free 


a  For  simplicity  we  ignore  an  arbitrary  constant  in  the  phase,  which  was  included 
by  de  Broglie. 


2.3  Towards  a  complete  pilot-wave  dynamics:  1925-27  63 


particles  with  no  mutual  interaction,  all  having  the  same  velocity  v, 
and  with  singular  amplitudes  /  centred  at  different  points  in  space. 
According  to  de  Broglie,  this  ensemble  of  moving  singularities  may  be 
represented  by  a  continuous  solution  of  the  same  wave  equation  ([36| ,  of 
the  form 

*(x,  t)  =  a  cos  -r<f>(x,  t)  ,  (39) 


where  a  is  a  constant  and  4>  is  given  by  ([38|).  This  continuous  solution 
is  said  to  'correspond  to'  the  singular  solution  j37|.  (De  Broglie  points 
out  that  the  continuous  solutions  are  the  same  as  those  considered  by 
Schrodinger.) 

The  number  density  of  particles  in  the  ensemble  is  taken  to  have  a 
constant  value  p,  which  may  be  written  as 

p  =  Ka2  (40) 

for  some  constant  K.  Thus,  de  Broglie  notes,  (|39|  gives  the  'distribution 
of  phases  in  the  cloud  of  points'  as  well  as  the  'density  of  the  cloud';  and 
for  a  single  particle  with  known  velocity  and  unknown  position,  a2<i3x 
will  measure  the  probability  for  the  particle  to  be  in  a  volume  element 
d3x. 

Having  discussed  the  free  particle,  de  Broglie  moves  on  to  the  case  of 
a  single  particle  in  a  static  external  potential  V(x).  The  wave  u  'written 
in  complex  form'  now  satisfies  what  we  would  call  the  Klein-Gordon 
equation  in  an  external  potentials 

2       1  d2u      2i  rrdu      1  /   2  2     V2\        „         ,  x 
V2«  "  ~™  +  jrsV—  -  J*    rule2  -  —  )u  =  0  .  (41) 


s2  dt2     he2    dt     fi2  V  c2  , 

De  Broglie  assumes  that  the  particle  begins  in  free  space,  represented 
by  a  singular  wave  (|37ll.  and  then  enters  a  region  where  V  ^  0,  into 
which  the  free  solution  f37j)  must  be  extended.  De  Broglie  writes  (|37|)  'in 
complex  form',  substitutes  into  (|4"Tj).  and  takes  the  real  and  imaginary 
parts,  yielding  two  coupled  partial  differential  equations  for  /  and  <p. 
Writing 

0(x,t)=Et-0i(x)  (42) 

(where  E  —  hv  is  constant) ,  one  of  the  said  partial  differential  equations 
becomes 


H2^  =  (\7<b1y--(E-vy  +  my  (43) 

a  This  follows  from  (1361)  by  the  substitution  ihd/dt  — »  itid/dt  +  V. 


64 


De  Broglie's  pilot-wave  theory 


(where  Dee  V2-  (l/c2)<92 /dt2).  De  Broglie  notes  that  if  the  left-hand 
side  is  negligible,  f43|)  reduces  to  the  'Jacobi  equation'  for  relativistic 
dynamics  in  a  static  potential,  so  that  4>\  reduces  to  the  'Jacobi  function'. 
Deviations  from  classical  mechanics  occur,  de  Broglie  notes,  when  □/  is 
non-zero. 

De  Broglie  now  remarks  that,  in  the  classical  limit,  the  velocity  of 
the  particle  has  the  same  direction  as  the  vector  V^i ;  he  then  explicitly 
assumes  that  this  is  still  true  in  the  general  case.  Here,  the  identity  (f35]) 
of  the  principles  of  Maupertuis  and  Fermat  is  being  invoked.  With  this 
assumption,  de  Broglie  shows  that  the  singularity  must  have  velocity 

and  he  adds  that  in  the  nonrelativistic  approximation,  E  —  V  «  ijiqC2, 
so  that 

v  =  —  V0i  .  (45) 

De  Broglie  remarks  that,  in  the  classical  approximation,  4>\  becomes 
the  'Jacobi  function'  and  that  (|44"ll  agrees  with  the  relativistic  relation 
between  velocity  and  momentum.  He  adds  (p.  230): 

The  aim  of  the  preceding  arguments  is  to  make  it  plausible  that  the  relation 
[(|44|)]  is  strictly  valid  in  the  new  mechanics. 

The  importance  of  the  relation  lj44j)  for  de  Broglie  is,  of  course,  that  it 
embodies  the  identity  of  the  principles  of  Maupertuis  and  Fermat. 

As  in  the  free  case,  de  Broglie  then  goes  on  to  consider  an  ensemble 
of  such  particles,  with  each  particle  represented  by  a  moving  singularity. 
He  assumes  that  the  phase  function  4>i  is  the  same  for  all  the  particles, 
whose  velocities  are  then  given  by  (|44|) .  The  (time-independent)  particle 
density  p(x)  must  then  satisfy  the  continuity  equation 

V  ■  (pv)  =  0  .  (46) 

Once  again,  de  Broglie  introduces  a  representation  of  the  ensemble  by 
a  continuous  solution  of  lj4Tj).  In  the  presence  of  the  potential  V,  the 
solution  is  taken  to  have  the  form 

*(x,t)  =  a(x)cos^0'(x,t)  =  a(x)cos27r  (vt—  ^^(xM  .  (47) 
Again,  writing  ^  'in  complex  form',  substituting  into  l|4"Tj)  and  taking  real 


2.3  Towards  a  complete  pilot-wave  dynamics:  1925-27  65 


and  imaginary  parts,  de  Broglie  obtains  two  coupled  partial  differential 
equations,  now  in  a  and  (j>[.  One  of  these  reads 

H2^  =  (V^f  -±(E-V)2  +  m20c2  .  (48) 

In  this  case  de  Broglie  notes  that  if  the  left-hand  side  is  negligible,  lj48l) 
reduces  to  the  equation  of  geometrical  optics  associated  with  the  wave 
equation  lj4T|). 

Comparing  lf43j)  and  i|48j).  de  Broglie  notes  that  when  the  left-hand 
sides  are  negligible,  one  recovers  both  classical  mechanics  (for  a  moving 
singularity)  and  geometrical  optics  (for  a  continuous  wave).  In  this  limit, 
the  functions  4>\  and  are  identical,  being  both  equal  to  the  'Jacobi 
function'. 

At  this  point  de  Broglie  makes  a  crucial  assumption.  He  proposes  to 
assume,  as  a  hypothesis,  that  4>i  and  4>'\  are  always  equal,  regardless  of 
any  approximation  (p.  231-2): 

We  now  make  the  essential  hypothesis  that  <j>i  and  4>[  are  still  identical  when 
[the  left-hand  sides  of  l|43|l  and  l|48|l]  can  no  longer  be  neglected.  Obviously, 
this  requires  that  one  have: 

V2q  _  □/ 

We  shall  refer  to  this  postulate  by  the  name  of  'principle  of  the  double 
solution',  because  it  implies  the  existence  of  two  sinusoidal  solutions  of  equa- 
tion [l|4ip]  having  the  same  phase  factor,  the  one  consisting  of  a  point-like 
singularity  and  the  other  having,  on  the  contrary,  a  continuous  amplitude. 

This  hypothesis  expresses,  in  a  more  concrete  form,  de  Broglie's  earlier 
idea  of  'phase  harmony'  between  the  internal  oscillation  of  a  particle  and 
the  oscillation  of  an  accompanying  extended  wave:  the  condition  that  <f>\ 
and  (/)[  should  coincide  amounts  to  a  phase  harmony  between  the  singular 
w-wave  representing  the  point-like  particle  and  the  continuous  ^-wave. 

Given  this  condition,  de  Broglie  deduces  that  the  ratio  p/a2(E  —  V)  is 
constant  along  the  particle  trajectories.  Since  each  particle  is  assumed 
to  begin  in  free  space,  where  V  —  0  and  (according  to  l(40|))  p  =  Ka2, 
de  Broglie  deduces  that  in  general 

p(x)=ifa2(x)(l-^)  ,  (49) 

where  if  is  a  constant.  The  continuous  wave  then  gives  the  ensemble 
density  at  each  point.  In  the  nonrelativistic  approximation,  this  becomes 

p(x)  =  ifa2(x)  .  (50) 


66 


De  Broglie's  pilot-wave  theory 


De  Broglie  notes  that  each  possible  initial  position  for  the  particle  gives 
rise  to  a  possible  trajectory,  and  that  an  ensemble  of  initial  positions 
gives  rise  to  an  ensemble  of  motions.  Again,  de  Broglie  takes  /?(x)<i3x 
as  the  probability  for  a  single  particle  to  be  in  a  volume  element  g?3x. 
This  probability  is,  as  he  notes,  given  in  terms  of  *  by  (|49|)  or  1(50]).  De 
Broglie  adds  that  ^  also  determines  the  trajectories  (p.  232): 

The  form  of  the  trajectories  is  moreover  equally  determined  by  knowledge  of 
the  continuous  wave,  since  these  trajectories  are  orthogonal  to  the  surfaces  of 
equal  phase. 

Here  we  see  the  first  suggestion  that  \P  itself  may  be  regarded  as  deter- 
mining the  trajectories,  an  idea  that  de  Broglie  proposes  more  fully  at 
the  end  of  the  paper. 

After  sketching  how  the  above  could  be  used  to  calculate  probabilities 
for  electron  scattering  off  a  fixed  potential,  de  Broglie  goes  on  to  gene- 
ralise his  results  to  the  case  of  a  particle  of  charge  e  in  a  time-dependent 
electromagnetic  field  (V(x,  t),  A(x,  t)).  He  writes  down  the  correspon- 
ding Klein-Gordon  equation,  and  once  again  considers  solutions  of  the 
form  f37j)  with  a  moving  singularity,  following  the  same  procedure  as 
before.  Because  of  the  time-dependence  of  the  potentials,  <f>  no  longer 
takes  the  form  l142[).  Instead  of  (|44|).  the  velocity  of  the  singularity  is 
now  found  to  be 

„V0+  £A 

v  =  ~c2    ^     c     ,  (51) 
<j)  -  eV 

or,  in  the  nonrelativistic  approximation, 

v  =  -—  h(t>+-A]  .  (52) 
mo  V  c  / 

Once  again,  de  Broglie  then  considers  an  ensemble  of  such  moving  sin- 
gularities, with  the  same  phase  function  </>(x,  t).  The  density  p(x.,  t)  now 
obeys  a  continuity  equation 

g  +  V  •  (pv)  =  0  ,  (53) 

with  velocity  field  v  given  by  lf5"Tj).  Again,  de  Broglie  proceeds  to  repre- 
sent the  motion  of  the  ensemble  by  means  of  a  continuous  solution  ^>  of 
the  wave  equation,  this  time  of  the  form 

$(x,  t)  =  a(x,  t)  cos  -^'(x>  *)  )  (54) 

with  a  time-dependent  amplitude  and  a  phase  no  longer  linear  in  t.  And 
again,  de  Broglie  assumes  the  principle  of  the  double  solution,  that  the 


2.3  Towards  a  complete  pilot-wave  dynamics:  1925-27  67 


phase  functions  <^>(x, t)  and  <^/(x,  i)  are  the  same.  From  this,  de  Broglie 
deduces  that  the  ratio  p/a2(<fi—eV)  is  constant  along  particle  trajectories. 
Using  once  more  the  expression  p  —  Ka2  for  free  space,  where  V  =  0 
and  4>  —  Eq  ,  de  Broglie  argues  that  in  general 

p(x,  t)  =  J^a2(x,  t)  (j>  -  eV)  =  K'a2  (j>  -  ev)  ,  (55) 

and  that  in  the  nonrelativistic  limit  p  is  still  proportional  to  a2.  As 
before,  the  ensemble  may  be  regarded  as  composed  of  all  the  possible 
positions  of  a  single  particle,  of  which  only  the  initial  velocity  is  known, 
and  the  probability  that  the  particle  is  in  the  volume  element  d3x  at 
time  t  is  equal  to  p(x,  t)d3x  and  is  given  in  terms  of  '5  by  (|55)l. 

De  Broglie  now  shows  how  the  above  results  for  the  motion  of  a  particle 
in  a  potential  V  —  eV  (ignoring  for  simplicity  the  vector  potential  A) 
may  be  obtained  from  classical  mechanics,  with  a  Lagrangian  of  the 
standard  form 

L  =  —Mac2^Jl  —  v2/c2  —  V  ,  (56) 
by  assuming  that  the  particle  has  a  variable  proper  mass 

n     ft2  Oa 

M0(xst)  =  y^o-^r  —  >  (57) 

where  a  is  the  amplitude  of  the  continuous  ^  wave.  Further,  he  considers 
this  point  of  view  in  the  nonrelativistic  limit.  Writing  Mq(x,  t)  =  mo  + 
e(x,  t)  with  e  small,  the  Lagrangian  takes  the  approximate  form 

L  =  -m0c2  +  ^m0v2  -  ec2  -  V  .  (58) 

As  de  Broglie  remarks  (p.  237): 

Everything  then  takes  place  as  if  there  existed,  in  addition  to  V,  a  potential 
energy  term  ec2. 

This  extra  term  coincides,  of  course,  with  Bohm's  quantum  potential  Q 
(equation  Q),  since  to  lowest  order 

2  h2  Da  h2  V2a        h2  a 

ec  =~n  +  7^  o-  59 

zmo  a         2mo    a       zmor  a 

and  the  second  term  is  negligible  in  the  nonrelativistic  limit  (c  — >  oo). 

As  we  have  already  repeatedly  remarked,  for  de  Broglie  the  guidance 
equation  v  cx  V0  for  velocity  is  the  fundamental  equation  of  motion, 
expressing  as  it  does  the  identity  of  the  principles  of  Maupertuis  and 
Fermat.  Even  so,  de  Broglie  points  out  that  one  can  write  the  dynamics 


G8 


De  Broglie's  pilot-wave  theory 


of  the  particle  in  classical  (Newtonian  or  Einsteinian)  terms,  provided 
one  includes  a  variable  proper  mass  or,  in  the  nonrelativistic  limit,  an 
additional  quantum  potential.  It  is  this  latter,  Newtonian  formulation 
that  Bohm  proposes  in  1952. 

De  Broglie  now  turns  to  the  case  of  a  many-body  system,  consisting 
of  N  particles  with  proper  masses  mi,  m2l  ...,m;y.  In  the  nonrelativistic 
approximation,  if  the  system  has  total  (Newtonian)  energy  E  and  poten- 
tial energy  V(xi,  ...,Xjv),  then  following  Schrodinger  one  may  consider 
the  propagation  of  a  wave  u  in  the  3iV-dimensional  configuration  space, 
satisfying  the  wave  equation 


(the  time-independent  Schrodinger  equation).  De  Broglie  remarks  that 
this  seems  natural,  because  lj60|)  is  the  obvious  generalisation  of  the 
one-body  Schrodinger  equation,  which  follows  from  the  nonrelativistic 
limit  of  de  Broglie's  wave  equation  (|4l)l.  However,  de  Broglie  criticises 
Schrodinger's  interpretation,  according  to  which  a  particle  is  identified 
with  an  extended,  non-singular  wave  packet,  having  no  precise  positi- 
on or  trajectory.  De  Broglie  objects  that,  without  well-defined  particle 
positions,  the  coordinates  Xi,  ...,xjv  used  to  construct  the  configuration 
space  would  have  no  meaning.  Further,  de  Broglie  asserts  that  configura- 
tion space  is  'purely  abstract',  and  that  a  wave  propagating  in  this  space 
cannot  be  a  physical  wave:  instead,  the  physical  picture  of  the  system 
must  involve  N  waves  propagating  in  3-space. 

'What  then',  asks  de  Broglie  (p.  238),  'is  the  true  meaning  of  the 
Schrodinger  equation?'  To  answer  this  question,  de  Broglie  considers, 
for  simplicity,  the  case  of  two  particles,  which  for  him  are  singularities  of 
a  wave-like  phenomenon  in  3-space.  Neglecting  the  vector  potential,  the 
two  singular  waves  Ui(x,  t)  and  Ua(x,  t)  satisfy  the  coupled  equations 


(60) 


_         2z  du2 

Du2  +  T^v*1h 


1/  n  v?\ 


(61) 


with  potentials 


Vi  =  VQx-x2\)    ,  y2=y(|x-Xl|) , 


(62) 


where  xi,  X2  are  the  positions  of  the  two  particles  (or  singularities).  The 


2.3  Towards  a  complete  pilot-wave  dynamics:  1925-27  69 

propagation  of  each  wave  then  depends,  through  V,  on  the  position  of 
the  singularity  in  the  other  wave. 

De  Broglie  is  now  faced  with  the  formidable  problem  of  solving  the 
simultaneous  partial  differential  equations  ij6~lj).  in  order  to  obtain  the 
motions  of  the  two  singularities.  Not  surprisingly,  de  Broglie  does  not 
attempt  to  carry  through  such  a  solution.  Instead  he  notes  that,  in 
classical  mechanics  in  the  nonrelativistic  limit,  it  is  possible  to  find  a 
'Jacobi  function'  0(xi,x2)  for  the  two-particle  system,  such  that  the 
particle  momenta  are  given  by 

toiVi  =  — Vi</>  ,      m2v2  =  — V2</>  •  (63) 

De  Broglie  then  asks  (p.  238):  'Can  the  new  mechanics  ....  define  such  a 
function  <j)T 

De  Broglie  is  asking  whether,  if  one  could  solve  the  coupled  equations 
(|6l"j).  the  resulting  motions  of  the  singularities  would  (in  the  nonre- 
lativistic limit)  satisfy  the  guidance  equations  ([63|l  for  some  function 
</>(xi,x2).  He  then  asserts,  on  the  basis  of  an  incorrect  argument  (to 
which  we  shall  return  in  a  moment),  that  this  will  indeed  be  the  case. 
Having  concluded  that  a  function  0(xi,x2)  generating  the  motions  of 
the  singularities  will  in  fact  exist,  he  goes  on  to  identify  0(xi,x2)  with 
the  phase  of  a  continuous  solution  vE'(xi,x2,t)  of  the  Schrodinger  equa- 
tion ([SOl  for  the  two-particle  system.  While  de  Broglie  does  not  say  so 
explicitly,  in  effect  he  assumes  that  there  exists  a  continuous  solution  of 
|60|)  whose  phase  coincides  with  the  function  0(xi ,  x2)  that  generates  the 
motions  of  the  singularities  via  This  seems  to  be  de  Broglie's  answer 
to  the  question  he  raises,  as  to  the  'true  meaning'  of  the  Schrodinger 
equation:  solving  the  Schrodinger  equation  (|60|)  in  configuration  space 
provides  an  effective  means  of  obtaining  the  motions  of  the  singularities 
without  having  to  solve  the  coupled  partial  differential  equations  ([6TJ  in 
3-space. 

De  Broglie's  incorrect  argument  for  the  existence  of  an  appropriate 
function  <fi,  derived  from  the  equations  (f6"I|).  proceeds  as  follows.  He  first 
imagines  that  the  motion  of  singularity  2  is  already  known,  so  that  the 
problem  of  motion  for  singularity  1  reduces  to  a  case  that  has  already 
been  discussed,  of  a  single  particle  in  a  given  time-dependent  potential. 
For  this  case,  it  has  already  been  shown  that  the  ensemble  of  possible 
trajectories  may  be  represented  by  a  continuous  wave 

ai(x,t)e(l/fi)0l(x't)  .  (64) 

Further,  as  was  shown  earlier,  the  equations  of  motion  for  the  par- 


70 


De  Broglie's  pilot-wave  theory 


tide  may  be  written  in  Lagrangian  form  with  an  additional  potential 
£i(xi,i)c2.  Similarly,  considering  the  motion  of  singularity  1  as  known, 
the  motion  of  singularity  2  can  be  described  by  a  Lagrangian  with  an 
additional  potential  £2(x2,i)c2.  The  two  sets  of  (classical)  equations  of 
motion  can  be  derived  from  a  single  Lagrangian,  de  Broglie  argues,  only 
if  ei  and  £2  reduce  to  a  single  function  eflxi  —  Xa|)  of  the  interparticle 
separation.  'If  we  assume  this',  says  de  Broglie,  the  total  Lagrangian  for 
the  system  will  be 

L  =  ^mivf  +  ~m2uf  -  V(\xi  -  x2|)  -  e(|xi  -  x2|)c2  ,  (65) 

and  one  will  be  able  to  deduce,  in  the  usual  fashion,  the  existence  of  a 
function  </>(xi,x2)  satisfying  the  equations  (|63|).  It  is  not  entirely  clear 
from  the  text  if  de  Broglie  is  really  convinced  that  £1  and  £2  will  indeed 
reduce  to  a  single  function  e(|xi  —  Xa|).  With  hindsight  one  sees,  in  fact, 
that  this  will  not  usually  be  the  case.  For  it  amounts  to  requiring  that 
the  quantum  potential  Q(xi,X2)  for  two  particles  should  take  the  form 
Q(xi,X2)  =  Q(|xi  —  X2I),  which  is  generally  falseQ 

After  giving  his  incorrect  argument  for  the  existence  of  <p,  de  Bro- 
glie points  out  that,  since  the  particles  have  definite  trajectories,  it  is 
meaningful  to  consider  their  six-dimensional  configuration  space,  and  to 
represent  the  two  particles  by  a  single  point  in  this  space,  with  velocity 
components  given  by  (|63|).  If  the  initial  velocity  components  are  given, 
but  the  initial  positions  of  the  two  particles  are  not,  one  may  consider 
an  ensemble  of  representative  points  (xi,X2),  whose  density  p(xi,xa)  in 
configuration  space  satisfies  the  continuity  equation, 

V  •  (pv)  =  0  ,  (66) 

where  v  is  the  (six-dimensional)  velocity  field  given  by  ([63|. 

De  Broglie  then  considers,  as  we  have  said,  a  continuous  solution  of 
the  Schrodinger  equation  l|60p ,  of  the  form 

*(x1,X2,i)-J4(x1,x2)e(l/^  ,  (67) 

with  the  tacit  assumption  that  the  phase  <j)  is  the  same  function  0  whose 
existence  has  been  (apparently)  established  by  the  above  (incorrect) 
argument.  He  then  shows,  from  lj60|l.  that  A2  satisfies  the  configuration- 
space  continuity  equation  lj66j).  De  Broglie  concludes  that  A2d3xid3X2 

a  One  might  also  question  the  meaning  of  de  Broglie's  wave  function  l|64|l  for  particle 
1,  in  the  context  of  a  system  of  two  interacting  particles,  which  must  have  an 
entangled  wave  function  <E'(xi,X2,t). 


2.3  Towards  a  complete  pilot-wave  dynamics:  1925-27  71 

is  the  probability  for  the  representative  point  (xi,X2)  to  be  present  in  a 
volume  element  g?3Xig?3X2  of  configuration  space. 

Here,  then,  de  Broglie  has  arrived  at  a  higher-dimensional  analogue  of 
his  previous  results:  the  wave  function  VP  in  configuration  space  deter- 
mines the  ensemble  probability  density  through  its  amplitude,  as  well  as 
the  motion  of  a  single  system  through  its  phase. 

De  Broglie  ends  this  section  by  remarking  that  it  seems  difficult  to  find 
an  equation  playing  a  role  similar  to  f60|)  outside  of  the  nonrelativistic 
approximation,  and  that  Fermi's  calculation  concerning  the  scattering 
of  electrons  by  a  rotator  may  be  regarded  as  illustrating  the  above. 

From  the  point  of  view  of  the  history  of  pilot-wave  theory,  the  most 
important  section  of  de  Broglie's  paper  now  follows.  Entitled  'The  pilot 
wave'  ('L'onde  pilote'),  it  begins  by  recalling  the  results  obtained  in  the 
case  of  a  single  particle  in  a  time-dependent  potential,  which  de  Broglie 
states  may  be  summarised  by  'the  two  fundamental  formulas'  (|5Tjl  and 
l(55|)  for  the  particle  velocity  and  probability  density  respectively.  De 
Broglie  notes  that  he  arrived  at  the  velocity  formula  ([5T])  by  invoking 
the  principle  of  the  double  solution  —  a  principle  that  is  valid  in  free 
space  but  which  'remains  a  hypothesis  in  the  general  case'  (p.  241).  At 
this  point,  de  Broglie  makes  a  remarkable  suggestion:  that  instead  of 
trying  to  derive  the  velocity  field  l|5ip  from  an  underlying  theory,  one 
could  simply  take  it  as  a  postulate,  and  regard  f  as  a  physically-real 
'pilot  wave'  guiding  the  motion  of  the  particle.  To  quote  de  Broglie 
(p.  241): 

But  if  one  does  not  wish  to  invoke  the  principle  of  the  double  solution, 
it  is  acceptable  to  adopt  the  following  point  of  view:  one  will  assume  the 
existence,  as  distinct  realities,  of  the  material  point  and  of  the  continuous 
wave  represented  by  the  function  and  one  will  take  it  as  a  postulate  that 
the  motion  of  the  point  is  determined  as  a  function  of  the  phase  of  the  wave 
by  the  equation  [(1 5 1 1> ] .  One  then  conceives  the  continuous  wave  as  guiding  the 
motion  of  the  particle.  It  is  a  pilot  wave. 

This  is  the  first  appearance  in  the  literature  of  what  we  now  know  as 
pilot-wave  or  de  Broglian  dynamics  (albeit  stated  explicitly  for  only  a 
single  particle).  The  pilot  wave  \&  satisfying  the  Schrodinger  equation, 
and  the  material  point,  are  regarded  as  'distinct  realities',  with  the 
former  guiding  the  motion  of  the  latter  according  to  the  velocity  law 

m- 

De  Broglie  made  it  clear,  however,  that  he  thought  such  a  dynamics 
could  be  only  provisional  (p.  241): 


72 


De  Broglie's  pilot-wave  theory 


By  thus  taking  [l|5ip]  as  a  postulate,  one  avoids  having  to  justify  it  by  the 
principle  of  the  double  solution;  but  this  can  only  be,  I  believe,  a  provisional 
attitude.  No  doubt  one  will  indeed  have  to  reincorporate  the  particle  into  the 
wave-like  phenomenon,  and  one  will  probably  be  led  back  to  ideas  analogous 
to  those  that  have  been  developed  above. 

As  we  shall  discuss  in  the  next  section,  de  Broglie's  proposal  of  pilot- 
wave  theory  as  a  provisional  measure  has  striking  analogues  in  the  early 
history  of  Newtonian  gravity  and  of  Maxwellian  electromagnetic  theory. 

De  Broglie  goes  on  to  point  out  two  important  applications  of  the 
formulas  lf5lj)  and  1(55]).  First,  applying  the  theory  to  light,  according 
to  1(55])  'the  density  of  the  photons  is  proportional  to  the  square  of 
the  amplitude'  of  the  guiding  wave  yielding  agreement  with  the 
predictions  of  wave  optics.  Second,  an  ensemble  of  hydrogen  atoms  with 
a  definite  state  \&  will  have  a  mean  electronic  charge  density  proportional 
to  |\I/|2,  as  assumed  by  Schrodinger. 

De  Broglie's  'Structure'  paper  ends  with  some  remarks  on  the  pressure 
exerted  by  particles  on  a  wall  (for  example  of  a  box  of  gas).  He  notes 
that  according  to  (f53~^ i  because  of  the  interference  between  the  incident 
and  reflected  waves,  the  particles  will  not  actually  strike  the  wall,  raising 
the  question  of  how  the  pressure  is  produced.  De  Broglie  claims  that  the 
pressure  comes  from  stresses  in  the  interference  zone,  as  appear  in  an 
expression  obtained  by  Schrodinger  (1927c)  for  the  stress-energy  tensor 
associated  with  the  wave  '5. 

2.3.2  Significance  of  de  Broglie's  'Structure'  paper 

The  exceptional  quality  of  de  Broglie's  'Structure'  paper  in  Journal  de 
Physique  was  noted  by  Pauli,  in  a  letter  to  Bohr  dated  6  August  1927, 
already  quoted  as  the  epigraph  to  the  last  subsection:  '....  it  is  very  rich 
in  ideas  and  very  sharp,  and  on  a  much  higher  level  than  the  childish 
papers  by  Schrodinger  ....'  (Pauli  1979,  pp.  404-5).  In  the  same  letter, 
Pauli  suggested  that  Bohr  would  have  to  refer  to  de  Broglie's  paper  in 
his  Como  lecture  (in  which  Bohr  developed  the  idea  of  complementarity 
between  waves  and  particles);  and  in  fact,  in  what  was  to  remain  an 
unpublished  version  of  the  Como  lecture,  Bohr  did  take  an  explicit  stand 
against  de  Broglie's  ideas  (Bohr  1985,  pp.  89-98).  Bohr  characterised  de 
Broglie's  work  as  attempting  'to  reconcile  the  two  apparently  contra- 
dictory sides  of  the  phenomena  by  regarding  the  individual  particles  or 
light  quanta  as  singularities  in  the  wave  field';  further,  Bohr  suggested 
that  de  Broglie's  view  rested  upon  'the  concepts  of  classical  physics'  and 


2.3  Towards  a  complete  pilot-wave  dynamics:  1925-27  73 

was  therefore  not  'suited  to  help  us  over  the  fundamental  difficulties' 
(Bohr  1985,  p.  92).  On  the  whole,  though,  this  paper  by  de  Broglie  has 
been  essentially  ignored,  by  both  physicists  and  historians. 

De  Broglie's  'Structure'  paper  may  be  summed  up  as  follows.  De 
Broglie  has  a  model  of  particles  as  singularities  of  3-space  waves  Mj,  in 
which  the  motion  of  the  individual  particles,  as  well  as  the  ensemble  dis- 
tribution of  the  particles,  are  determined  by  a  continuous  wave  function 
\&.  (We  emphasise  that  de  Broglie  has  both  the  wave  function  and  the 
singular  w-waves.)  The  result  is  a  first-order  theory  of  motion,  based  on 
the  velocity  law  m^Vj  =  V,^>,  in  which  the  principles  of  Maupertuis  and 
Fermat  are  unified.  Then,  at  the  end  of  the  paper,  de  Broglie  recognises 
that  his  singularity  model  of  particles  can  be  dropped,  and  that  the 
results  he  has  obtained  —  the  formulas  for  velocity  and  probability 
density  in  terms  of  *  —  can  be  simply  postulated,  yielding  pilot-wave 
theory  as  a  provisional  measure. 

A  few  months  later,  in  October  1927,  de  Broglie  presented  this  pilot- 
wave  theory  at  the  fifth  Solvay  conference,  for  a  nonrelativistic  system  of 
N  particles  guided  by  a  wave  function  in  configuration  space.  Before 
discussing  de  Broglie's  Solvay  report,  however,  it  is  worth  pausing  to 
consider  the  role  played  by  the  'Structure'  paper  in  de  Broglie's  thinking. 

From  a  historical  point  of  view,  the  significance  of  de  Broglie's  'Struc- 
ture' paper  inevitably  depends  on  the  significance  one  ascribes  to  the 
provisional  pilot-wave  theory  arrived  at  in  that  paper.  Given  what  we 
know  today  —  that  pilot-wave  theory  provides  a  consistent  account 
of  quantum  phenomena  —  de  Broglie's  'Structure'  paper  now  seems 
considerably  more  significant  than  it  has  seemed  in  the  past. 

From  the  point  of  view  of  pilot-wave  theory  as  we  know  it  today,  the 
singular  u-waves  played  a  similar  role  for  de  Broglie  as  the  material 
ether  did  for  Maxwell  in  electromagnetic  theory.  In  both  cases,  there 
was  a  conceptual  scaffolding  that  was  used  to  build  a  new  theory,  and 
that  could  be  dropped  once  the  results  had  been  arrived  at.  De  Broglie 
recognised  at  the  end  of  his  paper  that,  if  one  took  pilot- wave  dynamics 
as  a  provisional  theory,  then  the  scaffolding  he  had  used  to  construct 
this  theory  could  be  dropped.  At  the  same  time,  de  Broglie  insisted  that 
taking  such  a  step  was  indeed  only  provisional,  and  that  an  underlying 
theory  was  still  needed,  probably  along  the  lines  he  had  been  pursuing. 

Similar  situations  have  arisen  before  in  the  history  of  science.  Abstrac- 
ting away  the  details  of  a  model  based  on  an  older  theory  sometimes 
results  in  a  new  theory  in  its  own  right,  involving  new  concepts,  where, 
however,  the  author  regards  the  new  theory  as  only  a  provisional  measu- 


74 


De  Broglie's  pilot-wave  theory 


re,  and  expects  that  the  model  based  on  the  older  theory  will  eventually 
provide  a  proper  basis  for  the  provisional  theory.  Thus,  for  example, 
Newton  tried  to  explain  gravitation  on  the  basis  of  action  by  contact, 
involving  a  material  medium  filling  space  —  the  same  'Aethereal  Medi- 
um', in  fact,  as  he  thought  responsible  for  the  interference  and  diffraction 
of  light  (Newton  1730;  reprint,  pp.  350-53).  Newton  regarded  his  theory 
of  gravitation,  with  action  at  a  distance,  as  merely  a  provisional  and 
phenomenological  theory,  that  would  later  find  an  explanation  in  terms 
of  contiguous  action.  Eventually,  however,  the  concept  of  'gravitational 
action  at  a  distance'  became  widely  accepted  in  its  own  right  (though  it 
was  later  to  be  overthrown,  of  course,  by  general  relativity).  Similarly, 
Maxwell  used  mechanical  models  of  an  ether  to  develop  his  theory  of  the 
electromagnetic  field.  Maxwell  himself  may  or  may  not  have  recognised 
that  this  scaffolding  could  be  dropped  (Hendry  1986).  But  certainly, 
many  of  his  immediate  followers  did  not:  they  regarded  working  only 
with  Maxwell's  equations  as  provisional  and  phenomenological,  pending 
the  development  of  an  underlying  mechanical  model  of  an  ether.  Again, 
the  concept  of  'electromagnetic  field'  eventually  became  widely  accepted 
as  a  physical  entity  in  its  own  right. 

In  the  case  of  de  Broglie  in  1927,  in  his  'Structure'  paper  (and  sub- 
sequently at  the  fifth  Solvay  conference),  he  arrived  at  the  new  concept 
of  'pilot  wave  in  configuration  space',  an  entirely  new  kind  of  physical 
entity  that,  according  to  de  Broglie's  (provisional)  theory,  guides  the 
motion  of  material  systems. 

2.4  1927  Solvay  report:  the  new  dynamics  of  quanta 

We  now  turn  to  a  (brief)  summary  of  and  commentary  on  de  Broglie's 
report  at  the  fifth  Solvay  conference!!  As  we  have  noted,  the  theory 
presented  in  this  report  is  pilot-wave  theory  as  we  know  it  today,  for  a 
nonrelativistic  many-body  system,  with  a  guiding  wave  in  configuration 
space  that  determines  the  particle  velocities  according  to  de  Broglie's 
basic  law  of  motion.  De  Broglie's  ideas  about  particles  as  singularities  of 
3-space  waves  are  mentioned  only  briefly.  The  theory  de  Broglie  presents 
in  Brussels  in  October  1927  is,  indeed,  just  the  provisional  theory  he 
proposed  a  few  months  earlier  at  the  end  of  his  'Structure'  paper  (though 
now  explicitly  applied  to  many-body  systems  as  well). 

De  Broglie  begins  part  I  of  his  report  by  reviewing  the  results  obtained 

a  Again,  our  notation  sometimes  departs  from  de  Broglie's. 


2.4  1927  Solvay  report:  the  new  dynamics  of  quanta 


75 


in  his  doctoral  thesis.  The  energy  E  and  momentum  p  of  a  particle  are 
determined  by  the  phase  <j>  of  an  associated  wave0 

E  =  d<p/dt  ,     p  =  -V0  .  (68) 

(These  are  the  relativistic  guidance  equations  of  de  Broglie's  early  pilot- 
wave  theory  of  1923-24.)  It  follows  that,  as  de  Broglie  remarks,  'the 
principles  of  least  action  and  of  Fermat  are  identical'  (p.  I375fl .  Quan- 
tisation conditions  appear  in  a  natural  way,  and  there  are  far-reaching 
implications  for  statistical  mechanics.  De  Broglie  ends  the  review  of  his 
early  work  with  some  general  remarks.  He  points  out  (p.l376|l  that  he  'has 
always  assumed  that  the  material  point  occupies  a  well-defined  position 
in  space',  and  he  asserts  that  as  a  result  the  wave  amplitude  must  be 
singular,  or  take  very  large  values  in  a  small  region,  somewhere  within  the 
extended  wave.  Significantly,  de  Broglie  adds:  'But,  in  fact,  the  form  of 
the  amplitude  plays  no  role  in  the  results  reviewed  above'.  This  seems  to 
be  a  first  hint  that  the  actual  results,  such  as  (|68|).  do  not  depend  on  the 
details  of  any  underlying  model  of  the  particles  as  moving  singularities. 

De  Broglie  then  outlines  the  work  of  Schrodinger.  He  notes  that  Schro- 
dinger's  wave  equation  is  constructed  in  order  that  the  phase  <j>  of  the 
wave  function 

*  =  acos—  4>  (69) 

be  a  solution  of  the  Hamilton- Jacobi  equation  in  the  geometrical-optics 
limit.  He  points  out  that  Schrodinger  identifies  particles  with  localised 
wave  packets  instead  of  with  a  small  concentration  within  an  extended 
wave,  and  that  for  a  many-body  system  Schrodinger  has  a  wave  \1/  pro- 
pagating in  configuration  space.  For  both  the  one-body  and  many-body 
cases,  de  Broglie  writes  down  the  time-independent  Schrodinger  equation 
only,  with  a  static  potential  energy  function.  As  we  shall  see,  de  Broglie  in 
fact  considers  non-stationary  wave  functions  as  well.  For  the  one-body 
case,  de  Broglie  also  writes  down  a  relativistic,  and  time-dependent, 
equation  —  what  we  now  know  as  the  Klein-Gordon  equation  in  an 
external  electromagnetic  field. 

De  Broglie  then  raises  two  conceptual  difficulties  with  Schrodinger's 
work  (similar  in  spirit  to  the  objections  he  raises  in  'Structure'):  (1) 
He  questions  how  one  can  meaningfully  construct  a  configuration  space 
without  a  real  configuration,  asserting  that  it  'seems  a  little  paradoxical 
to  construct  a  configuration  space  with  the  coordinates  of  points  that  do 

a  Again,  de  Broglie's  phase  <j>  has  a  sign  opposite  to  the  phase  S  as  we  would  normally 
define  it  now. 


76 


De  Broglie's  pilot-wave  theory 


not  exist'  (p.  1379ft ,  (2)  He  claims  that  the  physical  meaning  of  the  wave 
$  cannot  be  compared  with  that  of  an  ordinary  wave  in  3-space,  because 
the  number  of  dimensions  of  the  abstract  space  on  which  \&  is  defined 
is  determined  by  the  number  of  degrees  of  freedom  of  the  system.  (This 
second  point  seems  indeed  a  very  effective  way  to  make  clear  that  \&  is 
quite  different  from  a  conventional  wave  or  field  on  3-space.) 

Part  I  of  the  report  ends  with  some  remarks  on  Born's  statistical 
interpretation,  which  de  Broglie  asserts  is  analogous  to  his  own. 

In  part  II  of  his  report,  de  Broglie  presents  his  own  interpretation 
of  the  wave  function.  Pilot-wave  theory  is  clearly  formulated,  first  for  a 
single  particle,  and  then  for  a  system  of  N  particles.  Several  applications 
are  outlined.  It  is  interesting  to  see  how  de  Broglie  motivates  his  theory 
and  compares  it  with  the  contenders. 

De  Broglie  begins  by  asking  what  the  relationship  is  between  particles 
and  the  wave  'J.  He  first  considers  a  single  relativistic  particle  in  an 
external  electromagnetic  field  with  potentials  (V,  A).  De  Broglie  notes 
that,  in  the  classical  limit,  the  phase  0  of  ^  obeys  the  Hamilton- Jacobi 
equation,  and  the  velocity  of  the  particle  is  given  by 


^2V0+  f  A 
6-eV 


(70) 


(the  same  formula  lf5lj)  discussed  in  'Structure').  De  Broglie  then  pro- 
poses that  this  velocity  formula  is  valid  even  outside  the  classical  limit 
(p. [382l  italics  in  the  original): 

We  propose  to  assume  by  induction  that  this  formula  is  still  valid  when  the  old 
Mechanics  is  no  longer  sufficient,  that  is  to  say  when  [(f)]  is  no  longer  a  solution 
of  the  Jacobi  equation.  If  one  accepts  this  hypothesis,  which  appears  justified 
by  its  consequences,  the  formula  [l|70p]  completely  determines  the  motion  of 
the  corpuscle  as  soon  as  one  is  given  its  position  at  an  initial  instant.  In 
other  words,  the  function  [(f)],  just  like  the  Jacobi  function  of  which  it  is  the 
generalisation,  determines  a  whole  class  of  motions,  and  to  know  which  of 
these  motions  is  actually  described  it  suffices  to  know  the  initial  position. 

We  emphasise  that  there  is  no  appeal  to  singular  u-waves  anywhere 
in  de  Broglie's  report.  No  use  is  made  of  the  principle  of  the  double 
solution.  As  he  had  suggested  at  the  end  of  his  'Structure'  paper  a 
few  months  earlier,  de  Broglie  simply  postulates  the  basic  equations 
of  pilot-wave  dynamics,  without  trying  to  derive  them  from  anything 
else.  To  motivate  the  guidance  equation,  de  Broglie  simply  generalises 
the  classical  Hamilton-Jacobi  velocity  formula  to  the  non-classical  do- 
main: he  assumes  'by  induction'  that  the  formula  holds  even  outside 


2.4  1927  Solvay  report:  the  new  dynamics  of  quanta 


77 


the  classical  limit.  And  de  Broglie  is  quite  explicit  that  he  is  proposing  a 
first-order  theory  of  motion,  based  on  velocities:  given  the  wave  function, 
the  initial  position  alone  determines  the  trajectory. 

So  far,  then,  for  a  single  particle  de  Broglie  has  a  (relativistic)  wave 
function  \P  =  acos^0  whose  phase  <j>  determines  the  particle  velocity 
by  the  guidance  equation  (|70l).  De  Broglie  now  goes  on  to  point  out 
that,  for  an  ensemble  of  particles  guided  by  the  velocity  field  (|70)l.  the 
distribution 

Ka2U-eV^  (71) 

is  preserved  in  time  (that  is,  equivariant).  He  concludes  that,  if  the  initial 
position  of  the  particle  is  ignored,  then  the  probability  for  the  particle 
to  be  present  (at  time  t)  in  a  spatial  volume  dr  is 

ndr  =  Ka2  U  ~  eV  \  dr  .  (72) 

(This  is  the  same  probability  formula  (|55|  arrived  at  in  'Structure'.) 

De  Broglie's  expression  'probabilite  de  presence'  makes  it  clear  that 
we  have  to  do  with  a  probability  for  the  electron  being  somewhere,  and 
not  merely  with  a  probability  for  an  experimenter  finding  the  electron 
somewhere  —  cf.  Bell  (1990,  p.  29).  De  Broglie  simply  assumes  that  the 
equivariant  distribution  is  the  correct  probability  measure  for  a  particle 
of  unknown  position.  In  fact,  this  distribution  is  only  an  equilibrium 
distribution,  analogous  to  thermal  equilibrium  in  classical  statistical 
mechanics  (see  section  [821  • 

De  Broglie  sums  up  his  results  so  far  (p. I382jl: 

In  brief,  in  our  hypotheses,  each  wave  *  determines  a  'class  of  motions',  and 
each  one  of  these  motions  is  governed  by  equation  [ll70|l]  when  one  knows  the 
initial  position  of  the  corpuscle.  If  one  ignores  this  initial  position,  the  formula 
[G2J]  gives  the  probability  for  the  presence  of  the  corpuscle  in  the  element  of 
volume  dr  at  the  instant  t.  The  wave  $  then  appears  as  both  a  pilot  wave 
(Fiihrungsfeld  of  Mr  Born)  and  a  probability  wave. 

There  are,  de  Broglie  adds,  no  grounds  for  abandoning  determinism,  and 
in  this  his  theory  differs  from  that  of  Born. 

De  Broglie  adds  that,  in  the  nonrelativistic  approximation  (where  <\>  — 
eV  moc2),  the  guidance  and  probability  formulas  ([70)1  and  (f72|)  reduce 
to 

v=  -—  (V^-A)  (73) 
mo  V         c  / 


78 


De  Broglie's  pilot-wave  theory 


and 

7r  =  const  ■  a2  .  (74) 

These  are  the  standard  pilot-wave  equations  for  a  single  particle  (in  an 
external  electromagnetic  field). 

De  Broglie  then  remarks  on  how  the  above  formulas  may  be  applied 
to  the  scattering  of  a  single  particle  by  a  fixed  potential.  The  ensemble 
of  incident  particles  may  be  represented  by  a  plane  wave  with  a  uniform 
probability  distribution.  Upon  entering  a  region  of  non-zero  field,  the 
behaviour  of  the  wave  function  may  be  calculated  using  Born's  perturba- 
tion theory  (for  example,  for  the  Rutherford  scattering  of  an  electron  by 
an  atomic  nucleus) .  De  Broglie  draws  an  analogy  between  the  scattering 
of  the  wave  function  \&  and  the  classical  scattering  of  light  by  a  refracting 
medium. 

As  in  his  'Structure'  paper,  de  Broglie  remarks  in  passing  that,  for  a 
relativistic  particle  governed  by  the  guidance  equation  ([7"0|).  one  may 
write  down  the  equations  of  classical  dynamics  with  a  variable  rest 
mass  M0  given  by  equation  (|57|).  As  we  have  already  noted,  in  the 
nonrelativistic  approximation  this  yields  an  additional  potential  energy 
term,  which  is  precisely  Bohm's  'quantum  potential'.  And,  once  again, 
we  emphasise  that  for  de  Broglie  the  equation  v  oc  V</>  for  velocity  is  the 
fundamental  equation  of  motion,  expressing  the  identity  of  the  principles 
of  Maupertuis  and  Fermat:  de  Broglie  merely  points  out  that,  if  one 
wishes,  the  dynamics  can  be  written  in  classical  terms  (as  Bohm  did  in 
1952). 

De  Broglie  then  turns  to  the  interpretation  of  interference  and  dif- 
fraction, for  the  case  of  photons.  Here,  the  guiding  wave  \&  is  similar  to 
but  not  the  same  as  a  light  waveQ  De  Broglie  considers  scattering  by 
fixed  obstacles,  in  which  case  the  guiding  wave  may  be  taken  to  have  a 
constant  frequency  v.  The  relativistic  equations  lf70j).  (|72|)  then  become 

c2 

v  =  —  — —  V0,     7r  =  const  •  a2  .  (75) 
hv 

De  Broglie  points  out  that  the  second  equation  predicts  the  well-known 
interference  and  diffraction  patterns.  He  argues  that  the  results  will  be 
the  same,  whether  the  experiment  is  done  with  an  intense  beam  over  a 
short  time  or  with  a  feeble  beam  over  a  long  time. 

De  Broglie  remarks,  as  he  did  at  the  end  of  'Structure',  on  the  stresses 

a  De  Broglie  did  not  identify  the  photonic  pilot  wave  with  the  electromagnetic  field. 
In  the  general  discussion,  on  p.  15081  de  Broglie  explicitly  states  that  in  his  theory 
the  wave  \P  for  the  case  of  photons  is  distinct  from  the  electromagnetic  field. 


2.4  1927  Solvay  report:  the  new  dynamics  of  quanta  79 

appearing  in  Schrodinger's  expression  for  the  stress-energy  tensor  of  the 
wave  '5.  According  to  de  Broglie,  these  stresses  provide  an  explanation 
for  the  pressure  exerted  by  light  reflecting  on  a  mirror  —  despite  the  fact 
that,  according  to  ([70|.  the  photons  never  actually  strike  the  surface  of 
the  mirror  (as  shown  explicitly  by  Brillouin  in  the  discussion  after  de 
Broglie's  report). 

De  Broglie  then  turns  to  the  generalisation  of  the  above  dynamics 
to  a  (nonrelativistic)  many-body  system.  Remarkably,  many  historians 
and  commentators  have  not  noticed  this  proposal  by  de  Broglie  of  a 
many-body  dynamics  in  configuration  space,  a  proposal  that  is  usually 
attributed  to  Bohm  (cf.  sectionlll.il) 

De  Broglie  begins  by  pointing  out  how  the  two  difficulties  he  has 
raised  against  Schrodinger's  wave  mechanics  might  be  solved.  First,  if  a 
real  configuration  exists  at  all  times,  one  can  meaningfully  construct  the 
configuration  space.  As  for  the  second  difficulty,  regarding  the  meaning 
of  a  wave  in  the  abstract  configuration  space,  de  Broglie  makes  the 
following  preliminary  remark  (p.  [385]): 

It  appears  to  us  certain  that  if  one  wants  to  physically  represent  the  evolution 
of  a  system  of  N  corpuscles,  one  must  consider  the  propagation  of  N  waves 
in  space,  each  of  the  N  propagations  being  determined  by  the  action  of  the 
N  —  1  corpuscles  connected  to  the  other  waves. 

This  seems  a  clear  reference  to  the  theory  of  interacting  singular  it-waves 
discussed  a  few  months  earlier  in  de  Broglie's  'Structure'  paperQ  (The 
propagation  of  each  wave  must  depend  on  the  motion  of  the  other  N  —  1 
particles,  of  course,  in  order  to  account  for  interactions  between  the 
particles.)  As  we  saw  above  (section  l2.3.ip.  in  'Structure'  de  Broglie 
explicitly  considered  the  case  of  two  particles,  which  were  represented 
by  two  singular  waves  wi(x,  t)  and  u2  (x,  i)  satisfying  a  pair  of  coupled 
partial  differential  equations  (JHTJ ,  where  the  equation  for  each  wave 
contained  a  potential  depending  on  the  position  of  the  singularity  in  the 
other  wave.  Instead  of  trying  to  solve  the  equations,  de  Broglie  assumed 

a  It  might  be  thought  that  here  de  Broglie  has  in  mind  the  fact  that  N  moving 
particles  may  be  associated  with  N  velocity  fields  in  3-space,  which  may  be 
associated  with  N  (non-singular)  guiding  waves  in  3-space.  Prom  a  pilot-wave 
perspective,  such  N  guiding  waves  may  be  identified  with  the  N  'conditional'  wave 
functions  Vi(xi,  *)  =  ^(Xi,  X2,  ...,Xj, Xjv,  t),  where  Xj  (i  =  1,  2, N)  ranges 
over  all  positions  in  3-space  and  Xj  is  the  actual  position  of  the  jth  particle.  Each 
ipi(xi,t)  defines  a  wave  in  3-space  that  determines  the  velocity  of  the  ith  particle 
(through  the  gradient  of  its  phase);  and  each  ^(xj,t)  depends  on  the  positions 
of  the  other  N  —  1  particles.  However,  given  the  context  (in  particular  the  recent 
publication  of  'Structure'),  it  seems  clear  that  here  de  Broglie's  N  waves  are  the 
singular  it-waves  of  his  double-solution  theory. 


80 


De  Broglie's  pilot-wave  theory 


that  the  resulting  velocities  of  the  moving  singularities  could  be  written 
as  the  gradient  of  a  function  0(xi,  X2),  which  could  be  identified  with  the 
phase  of  a  solution  \t(xi,X2,t)  of  the  (time-independent)  Schrodinger 
equation.  In  'Structure',  then,  the  wave  function  in  configuration  space 
appeared  as  an  effective  description  of  the  motions  of  the  particles  (or 
singularities).  An  echo  of  this  view  is  discernible  in  the  Solvay  report, 
which  continues  with  the  following  justification  for  introducing  a  guiding 
wave  in  configuration  space  (p.  I385fl : 

Nevertheless,  if  one  focusses  one's  attention  only  on  the  corpuscles,  one  can 
represent  their  states  by  a  point  in  configuration  space,  and  one  can  try  to 
relate  the  motion  of  this  representative  point  to  the  propagation  of  a  fictitious 
wave  $  in  configuration  space. 

De  Broglie  seems  to  be  saying  that,  if  one  is  concerned  only  with  a  suc- 
cinct mathematical  account  of  particle  motion  (as  opposed  to  a  physical 
representation) ,  then  this  can  be  obtained  by  introducing  a  guiding  wave 
in  configuration  space.  Certainly,  the  dynamics  is  much  simpler  with  a 
single,  autonomous  wave  W  in  configuration  space.  As  in  his  'Structure' 
paper,  this  seems  to  be  de  Broglie's  explanation  for  Schrodinger's  other- 
wise mysterious  configuration-space  wave. 

When  de  Broglie  states  that  the  wave  \P  is  'fictitious',  he  presumably 
means  that  it  has  only  mathematical,  and  not  physical,  significance^  It 
provides  a  convenient  mathematical  account  of  particle  motion,  pending 
a  full  physical  description  by  a  more  detailed  theory.  As  we  discussed  in 
section  12.3. 2\  the  provisional  introduction  of  a  'mathematical'  descrip- 
tion, pending  the  development  of  a  proper  'physical'  model,  has  distin- 
guished precedents  in  the  history  of  Newtonian  gravity  and  Maxwellian 
electrodynamics . 

Having  motivated  the  introduction  of  a  guiding  wave  \&  in  configura- 
tion space,  de  Broglie  suggests  (p.  I385|l  that  VP 

....  plays  for  the  representative  point  of  the  system  in  configuration  space  the 
same  role  of  pilot  wave  and  of  probability  wave  that  the  wave  $  plays  in 
ordinary  space  in  the  case  of  a  single  material  point. 

Thus,  in  the  nonrelativistic  approximation,  de  Broglie  considers  N  par- 

a  This  is  somewhat  in  contrast  with  de  Broglie's  introduction  of  the  pilot  wave  at 
the  end  of  'Structure',  where  he  refers  to  the  particle  and  the  guiding  wave  as 
'distinct  realities'.  However,  there  de  Broglie  explicitly  proposed  pilot-wave  theory 
for  a  single  particle  only,  and  it  is  likely  that  while  he  was  comfortable  with  the 
idea  of  a  physically  real  pilot  wave  in  3-space  (for  the  one-body  case),  he  could 
not  regard  a  pilot  wave  in  configuration  space  as  having  more  than  mathematical 
significance. 


2.4  1927  Solvay  report:  the  new  dynamics  of  quanta 


81 


tides  with  positions  Xi,X2, x^r.  He  states  that  the  wave  $  determines 
the  velocity  of  the  representative  point  in  configuration  space  by  the 
formula 


(where  mk  is  the  mass  of  the  fcth  particle).  As  in  the  case  of  a  single 
particle,  notes  de  Broglie,  the  probability  for  the  system  to  be  present 
in  a  volume  element  dr  of  configuration  space  is 


These  are  the  standard  pilot-wave  equations  for  a  many-body  system, 
replacing  the  single-particle  formulas  1(73])  and  |74|) .  De  Broglie  remarks 
that  (|77|)  seems  to  agree  with  Born's  results  for  electron  scattering  by 
an  atom  and  with  Fermi's  for  scattering  by  a  rotator. 

Finally,  at  the  end  of  his  section  on  the  many-body  case,  de  Broglie 
notes  that  it  seems  difficult  to  construct  a  wave  \&  that  can  generate 
the  motion  of  a  relativistic  many-body  system  (in  contrast  with  the 
relativistic  one-body  case),  a  point  that  de  Broglie  had  already  noted 
in  'Structure'.  From  the  very  beginning,  then,  it  was  recognised  that  it 
would  be  difficult  to  formulate  a  fundamentally  Lorentz-invariant  pilot- 
wave  theory  for  a  many-body  system,  a  situation  that  persists  to  this 
day. 

Thus,  in  his  report  at  the  fifth  Solvay  conference,  de  Broglie  arrived 
at  pilot-wave  theory  for  a  many-body  system,  with  a  guiding  wave  in 
configuration  space.  Judging  by  de  Broglie's  comments  about  a  physical 
representation  requiring  N  waves  in  3-space,  and  his  characterisation 
of  W  as  a  'fictitious'  wave,  it  seems  clear  that  he  still  regarded  his  new 
dynamics  as  an  effective,  mathematical  theory  only  (just  as  he  had  a  few 
months  earlier  in  his  'Structure'  paper). 

De  Broglie's  report  then  moves  on  to  sketch  some  applications  to 
atomic  theory.  For  stationary  states  of  hydrogen,  de  Broglie  notes  that 
the  electron  motion  is  circular,  except  in  the  case  of  magnetic  quantum 
number  m  =  0  for  which  the  electron  is  at  rest.  (Note  that  de  Broglie 
expresses  no  concern  that  the  electron  is  predicted  to  be  motionless  in 
the  ground  state  of  hydrogen.  This  result  may  seem  puzzling  classically, 
just  as  Bohr's  quantised  atomic  orbits  seem  puzzling  classically:  but  both 
are  natural  consequences  of  de  Broglie's  non-classical  dynamics.) 

De  Broglie  also  points  out  that  one  can  calculate  the  electron  velocity 
during  an  atomic  transition  i  — >  j,  so  that  such  transitions  can  be 
visualised.  In  this  example,  de  Broglie's  guiding  wave  is  a  solution  of  the 


(76) 


■Kdr  =  const  ■  a2dr  . 


(77) 


82 


De  Broglie's  pilot-wave  theory 


time- dependent  Schrodinger  equation,  with  a  time-dependent  amplitude 
as  well  as  phase.  (The  atomic  wave  function  is  taken  to  have  the  form 
\P  =        +  cjtyj,  where  are  eigenfunctions  corresponding  to  the 

atomic  states  i,  j,  and  c\,  Cj  are  functions  of  time.)  Clearly,  then,  de 
Broglie  applied  his  pilot-wave  dynamics  not  just  to  stationary  states, 
but  to  quite  general  wave  functions  —  as  he  had  also  done  (in  the  case 
of  a  single  particle)  in  'Structure'. 

De  Broglie  then  outlines  how,  in  his  theory,  one  can  obtain  expressions 
for  the  mean  charge  and  current  density  for  an  ensemble  of  atoms.  These 
expressions  are  the  same  as  those  used  by  Schrodinger  and  others.  De 
Broglie  remarks  that,  'denoting  by  \&  the  wave  written  in  complex  form, 
and  by  the  conjugate  function',  in  the  nonrelativistic  limit  the 
charge  density  is  proportional  to  \$f\  :  the  electric  dipole  moment  then 
contains  the  correct  transition  frequencies.  By  using  these  expressions 
as  sources  in  Maxwell's  equations,  says  de  Broglie,  one  can  correctly 
predict  the  mean  energy  radiated  by  an  atom.  This  is  just  semiclassical 
radiation  theory,  which  is  still  widely  used  today  in  quantum  opticsEI 

Part  II  of  de  Broglie's  report  ends  with  some  general  remarks.  First 
and  foremost,  de  Broglie  makes  it  clear  that  he  regards  pilot-wave  theory 
as  only  provisional  (p.  I389j): 

So  far  we  have  considered  the  corpuscles  as  'exterior'  to  the  wave  ^,  their 
motion  being  only  determined  by  the  propagation  of  the  wave.  This  is,  no 
doubt,  only  a  provisional  point  of  view:  a  true  theory  of  the  atomic  structure 
of  matter  and  radiation  should,  it  seems  to  us,  incorporate  the  corpuscles  in 
the  wave  phenomenon  by  considering  singular  solutions  of  the  wave  equations. 

De  Broglie  goes  on  to  suggest  that  in  a  deeper  theory  one  could  'show 
that  there  exists  a  correspondence  between  the  singular  waves  and  the 
waves  such  that  the  motion  of  the  singularities  is  connected  to  the 
propagation  of  the  waves  just  as  he  had  suggested  in  'Structure'. 
Part  II  ends  by  noting  the  incomplete  state  of  the  theory  with  respect 
to  the  electromagnetic  field  and  electron  spin. 

De  Broglie's  final  part  III  contains  a  lengthy  discussion  and  review  of 
recent  experiments  involving  the  diffraction,  interference  and  scattering 
of  electrons  (as  had  been  requested  by  Lorentz4).  He  regards  the  results 
as  evidence  for  his  'new  Dynamics'.  For  the  case  of  the  diffraction  of 
electrons  by  a  crystal  lattice,  de  Broglie  points  out  that  the  scattered 
wave  function  ^/  has  maxima  in  certain  directions,  and  notes  that  ac- 

a  Cf.  section  [PI 


2.4  1927  Solvay  report:  the  new  dynamics  of  quanta  83 

cording  to  his  theory  the  electrons  should  be  preferentially  scattered  in 
these  directions  (p.  [391]): 

Because  of  the  role  of  pilot  wave  played  by  the  wave  one  must  then  observe 
a  selective  scattering  of  the  electrons  in  these  directions. 

What  de  Broglie  is  (briefly)  describing  here  is  the  separation  of  the  in- 
cident wave  function  into  distinct  (non-overlapping)  emerging  beams, 
with  each  outgoing  electron  occupying  one  beam,  and  with  an  ensemble 
of  electrons  being  distributed  among  the  emerging  beams  according  to 
the  Born  rule.  This  is  relevant  to  a  proper  understanding  of  the  de 
Broglie-Pauli  encounter,  discussed  in  section  [10.21 

Concerning  the  scattering  maxima  observed  recently  by  Davisson  and 
Germer,  for  electrons  incident  on  a  crystal,  de  Broglie  remarks  ^p.  1394)) : 

There  is  direct  numerical  confirmation  of  the  formulas  of  the  new  Dyna- 
mics   

De  Broglie  also  discusses  the  inelastic  scattering  of  electrons  by  atoms. 
According  to  Born's  calculations,  one  should  observe  maxima  and  mini- 
ma in  the  angular  dependence  of  the  differential  scattering  cross  section. 
According  to  de  Broglie,  it  is  premature  to  speak  of  an  agreement  with 
experiment.  The  results  of  Dymond,  for  the  inelastic  scattering  of  elec- 
trons by  helium  atoms,  do  however  show  maxima  in  the  cross  section, 
in  qualitative  agreement  with  the  predictions.  De  Broglie  makes  it  quite 
clear  that,  at  the  time,  theory  was  far  behind  experiment. 

The  discussion  following  de  Broglie's  report  was  extensive,  detailed, 
and  varied.  A  number  of  participants  raised  queries,  and  de  Broglie 
replied  to  most  of  them.  Some  of  this  discussion  will  be  considered  in 
detail  in  chapters [10] and [TTJ  Here,  we  limit  ourselves  to  a  brief  summary 
of  the  questions  raised. 

Lorentz  asked  how,  in  the  simple  pilot- wave  theory  of  1924,  de  Broglie 
derived  quantisation  conditions  for  the  case  of  multiperiodic  atomic 
orbits.  Born  questioned  the  validity  of  de  Broglie's  guidance  equation 
for  an  elastic  collision,  while  Pauli  suggested  that  the  key  idea  behind  de 
Broglie's  theory  was  the  association  of  particle  trajectories  with  a  locally 
conserved  current.  Schrodinger  raised  the  question  of  an  alternative 
velocity  field  different  from  that  assumed  by  de  Broglie,  while  Kra- 
mers raised  the  question  of  how  the  Maxwell  energy-momentum  tensor 
could  arise  from  independently  moving  photons.  Lorentz,  Ehrenfest  and 
Schrodinger  asked  about  the  properties  of  electron  orbits  in  hydrogen. 
Brillouin  discussed  at  length  the  simple  example  of  a  photon  colliding 


84 


De  Broglie's  pilot-wave  theory 


with  a  mirror:  in  his  Fig.  2,  the  incident  and  emergent  photon  trajectories 
are  located  inside  packets  of  limited  extent  (a  point  relevant  for  the 
de  Broglie-Pauli  encounter  in  the  general  discussion).  Finally,  Lorentz 
considered,  in  classical  Maxwell  theory,  the  near-field  attractive  stress 
between  two  prisms,  and  claimed  that  this  'negative  pressure'  could  not 
be  produced  by  the  motion  of  corpuscles  (photons). 


2.5  Significance  of  de  Broglie's  work  from  1923  to  1927 

In  his  papers  and  thesis  of  1923-24,  de  Broglie  proposed  a  simple  form  of 
a  new,  non-classical  dynamics  of  particles  with  velocities  determined  by 
the  phase  gradient  of  abstract  waves  in  3-space.  De  Broglie  constructed 
the  dynamics  in  such  a  way  as  to  unify  the  mechanical  principle  of 
Maupertuis  with  the  optical  principle  of  Fermat.  He  showed  that  it  gave 
an  account  of  some  simple  quantum  phenomena,  including  single-particle 
interference  and  quantised  atomic  energy  levels. 

As  we  have  seen,  the  scope  and  ambition  of  de  Broglie's  doctoral  thesis 
went  far  beyond  a  mere  extension  of  the  relations  E  —  hv,p  =  h/X  from 
photons  to  other  particles.  Yet,  the  thesis  is  usually  remembered  solely 
for  this  idea.  The  depth  and  inner  logic  of  de  Broglie's  thinking  is  not 
usually  appreciated,  neither  by  physicists  nor  by  historians.  An  exception 
is  Darrigol  (1993),  who  on  this  very  point  writes  (pp.  303-4): 

For  one  who  only  knows  of  de  Broglie's  relation  A  =  h/p,  two  explanations  of 
his  originality  offer  themselves.  The  first  has  him  as  a  lucky  dreamer  who 
hit  upon  a  great  idea  amidst  a  foolish  play  with  analogies  and  formulas. 
The  second  has  him  a  providential  deep  thinker,  who  deduced  unsuspected 
connections  by  rationally  combining  distant  concepts.  The  first  explanation  is 

the  most  popular,  though  rarely  expressed  in  print  The  second  explanation 

of  Louis  de  Broglie's  originality,  though  also  extreme,  is  certainly  closer  to  the 
truth.  Anyone  who  has  read  de  Broglie's  thesis  cannot  help  admiring  the  unity 
and  inner  consistency  of  his  views,  the  inspired  use  of  general  principles,  and 
a  necessary  reserve. 

In  1926,  starting  from  de  Broglie's  expressions  for  the  frequency  and 
phase  velocity  of  an  electron  wave  in  an  external  potential,  Schrodinger 
found  the  (nonrelativistic)  wave  equation  for  de  Broglie's  waves.  It  was 
de  Broglie's  work,  beginning  in  1923,  that  initiated  the  notion  of  a 
wave  function  for  material  particles.  And  it  was  de  Broglie's  view  of 
the  significance  of  the  optical-mechanical  analogy,  and  of  the  role  waves 
could  play  in  bringing  about  the  existence  of  integer-valued  quantum 


2.5  Significance  of  de  Broglie's  work  from  1923  to  1927  85 

numbers,  that  formed  the  basis  for  Schrodinger's  development  of  the 
wave  equation  and  the  associated  eigenvalue  problem. 

In  1927,  de  Broglie  proposed  what  we  now  know  as  pilot-wave  or  de 
Broglian  dynamics  for  a  many-body  system,  with  a  guiding  wave  in 
configuration  space.  De  Broglie  regarded  this  theory  as  provisional:  he 
thought  it  should  emerge  as  an  effective  theory,  from  a  more  fundamental 
theory  in  which  particles  are  represented  by  singularities  of  3-space 
waves.  Even  so,  he  did  propose  the  theory,  in  the  first-order  form  most 
commonly  used  today.  Further,  as  we  have  seen,  de  Broglie's  view  of  the 
pilot  wave  as  merely  phenomenological  is  strikingly  reminiscent  of  (for 
example)  late-nineteenth-century  views  of  the  electromagnetic  field.  In 
retrospect,  one  may  regard  de  Broglie  as  having  unwittingly  arrived  at 
a  new  and  fundamental  concept,  that  of  a  pilot  wave  in  configuration 
space. 

De  Broglie  was  unable  to  show  that  his  new  dynamics  accounted  for  all 
quantum  phenomena.  In  particular,  as  we  shall  discuss  in  chaptersflOland 
rm  de  Broglie  did  not  understand  how  to  describe  the  process  of  measu- 
rement of  arbitrary  quantum  observables  in  pilot-wave  theory:  as  shown 
in  detail  by  Bohm  in  1952,  this  requires  an  application  of  de  Broglie's 
dynamics  to  the  measuring  device  itself.  De  Broglie  did,  however,  possess 
the  fundamental  dynamics  in  complete  form.  Furthermore,  de  Broglie 
did  understand  how  his  theory  accounted  for  single-particle  interference, 
for  the  directed  scattering  associated  with  crystal  diffraction,  and  for 
electron  scattering  by  atoms  (for  the  latter,  see  section [10.2j),  Clearly,  in 
1927,  many  applications  of  pilot-wave  theory  remained  to  be  developed; 
just  as,  indeed,  many  applications  of  quantum  theory  —  including  the 
general  quantum  theory  of  measurement  —  remained  to  be  developed 
and  clarified. 

In  retrospect,  de  Broglian  dynamics  seems  as  radical  as  —  and  indeed 
somewhat  reminiscent  of  —  Einstein's  theory  of  gravity.  According  to 
Einstein,  there  is  no  gravitational  force,  and  a  freely  falling  body  follows 
the  straightest  path  in  a  curved  spacetime.  According  to  de  Broglie,  a 
massive  body  undergoing  diffraction  and  following  a  curvilinear  path  is 
not  acted  upon  by  a  Newtonian  force:  it  is  following  the  ray  of  a  guiding 
wave.  De  Broglie's  abandonment  of  Newton's  first  law  of  motion  in  1923, 
and  the  adoption  of  a  dynamics  based  on  velocity  rather  than  accelera- 
tion, amounts  to  a  far-reaching  departure  from  classical  mechanics  and 
(arguably)  from  classical  kinematics  too  —  with  implications  for  the 
structure  of  spacetime  that  have  perhaps  not  been  understood  ( Valentini 
1997).  Certainly,  the  extent  to  which  de  Broglie's  dynamics  departs  from 


86 


De  Broglie's  pilot-wave  theory 


classical  ideas  was  unfortunately  obscured  by  Bohm's  presentation  of  it, 
in  1952,  in  terms  of  acceleration  and  a  pseudo-Newtonian  quantum  po- 
tential, a  formulation  that  today  seems  artificial  and  inelegant  compared 
with  de  Broglie's  (much  as  the  rewriting  of  general  relativity  as  a  field 
theory  on  flat  spacetime  seems  unnatural  and  hardly  illuminating).  The 
fundamentally  second-order  nature  of  classical  physics  is  today  embodied 
in  the  formalism  of  Hamiltonian  dynamics  in  phase  space.  In  contrast, 
de  Broglie's  first-order  approach  to  the  theory  of  motion  seems  more 
naturally  cast  in  terms  of  a  dynamics  in  configuration  space. 

Regardless  of  how  one  may  wish  to  interpret  it,  by  any  standards 
de  Broglie's  work  from  1923  to  1927  shows  a  remarkable  progression 
of  thought,  beginning  from  early  intuitions  and  simple  models  of  the 
relationship  between  particles  and  waves,  and  ending  (with  Schrodinger's 
help)  with  a  complete  and  new  form  of  dynamics  for  nonrelativistic 
systems  —  a  deterministic  dynamics  that  was  later  shown  by  Bohm  to  be 
empirically  equivalent  to  quantum  theory  (given  a  Born-rule  distribution 
of  initial  particle  positions).  The  inner  logic  of  de  Broglie's  work  in  this 
period,  his  drive  to  unite  the  physics  of  particles  with  the  physics  of 
waves  by  unifying  the  principles  of  Maupertuis  and  Fermat,  his  wave-like 
explanation  for  quantised  energy  levels,  his  prediction  of  electron  dif- 
fraction, his  explanation  for  single-particle  interference,  his  attempts  to 
construct  a  field-theoretical  picture  of  particles  as  moving  singularities, 
and  his  eventual  proposal  of  pilot- wave  dynamics  as  a  provisional  theory 
—  all  this  compels  admiration,  all  the  more  for  being  largely  unknown 
and  unappreciated. 

Today,  pilot-wave  theory  is  often  characterised  as  simply  adding  par- 
ticle trajectories  to  the  Schrodinger  equation.  An  understanding  of  de 
Broglie's  thought  from  1923  to  1927,  and  of  the  role  it  played  in  Schro- 
dinger's work,  shows  the  gross  inaccuracy  of  this  characterisation:  after 
all,  it  was  actually  Schrodinger  who  removed  the  trajectories  from  de 
Broglie's  theory  (cf.  section fll.lj) .  It  is  difficult  to  avoid  the  conclusion 
that  de  Broglie's  stature  as  a  major  contributor  to  quantum  theory 
has  suffered  unduly  from  the  circumstance  that,  for  most  of  the  twen- 
tieth century,  the  theory  proposed  by  him  was  incorrectly  regarded  as 
untenable  or  inconsistent  with  experiment.  Regardless  of  whether  or 
not  de  Broglie's  pilot-wave  theory  is  closer  to  the  truth  than  other 
interpretations,  the  fact  that  it  is  a  consistent  and  viable  approach  to 
quantum  physics  —  which  has  no  measurement  problem,  which  shows 
that  objectivity  and  determinism  are  not  incompatible  with  quantum 
physics,  and  which  stimulated  Bell  to  develop  his  famous  inequalities  — 


2.5  Significance  of  de  Broglie's  work  from  1923  to  1927  87 

necessarily  entails  a  reappraisal  of  de  Broglie's  place  in  the  history  of 
twentieth-century  physics. 


88 


Notes  to  pp.  31-82 


Archival  notes 

1  AHQP-OHI,  Louis  de  Broglie,  'Replies  to  Mr  Kuhn's  questions'. 

2  AHQP-OHI,  Louis  de  Broglie,  session  1  (tape  43a),  7  January  1963, 
Paris;  0.75  h,  in  French,  13  pp.;  by  T.  S.  Kuhn,  T.  Kahan  and  A.  George. 

3  Ibid. 

4  Cf.  de  Broglie  to  Lorentz,  27  June  1927,  AHQP-LTZ-11  (in  French). 


3 

From  matrix  mechanics  to  quantum 
mechanics 


The  report  by  Born  and  Heisenberg  on  'quantum  mechanics'  may  seem 
surprisingly  difficult  to  the  modern  reader.  This  is  partly  because  Born 
and  Heisenberg  are  describing  various  stages  of  development  of  the  theo- 
ry that  are  quite  different  from  today's  quantum  mechanics.  Among 
these,  it  should  be  noted  in  particular  that  the  theory  developed  by 
Heisenberg,  Born  and  Jordan  in  the  years  1925-26  and  known  today 
as  matrix  mechanics  (Heisenberg  1925b  [1],  Born  and  Jordan  1925  [2], 
Born,  Heisenberg  and  Jordan  1926  [4]  )@  differs  from  standard  quantum 
mechanics  in  several  important  respects.  At  the  same  time,  the  interpre- 
tation of  the  theory  (the  topic  of  section  II  of  the  report)  also  appears 
to  have  undergone  important  modifications,  in  particular  regarding  the 
notion  of  the  state  of  a  system.  Initially,  Born  and  Heisenberg  insist 
on  the  notion  that  a  system  is  always  in  a  stationary  state  (performing 
quantum  jumps  between  different  stationary  states).  Then  the  notion 
of  the  wave  function  is  introduced  and  related  to  probabilities  for  the 
stationary  states.  At  a  later  stage  probabilistic  notions  (in  particular, 
what  one  now  calls  transition  probabilities)  are  extended  to  arbitrary 
observables,  but  it  remains  somewhat  unclear  whether  the  wave  function 
itself  should  be  regarded  as  a  fundamental  entity  or  merely  as  an  effective 
one.  This  may  reflect  the  different  routes  followed  by  Born  and  by 
Heisenberg  in  the  development  of  their  ideas.  The  common  position 
presented  by  Born  and  Heisenberg  emphasises  the  probabilistic  aspect 
of  the  theory  as  fundamental,  and  the  conclusion  of  the  report  expresses 
strong  confidence  in  the  resulting  picture. 

The  two  main  sections  of  this  chapter,  section  13.31  and  section  13.41 
will  be  devoted,  respectively,  to  providing  more  details  on  the  various 

a  Throughout  this  chapter,  numbers  in  square  brackets  refer  to  entries  in  the  original 
bibliography  at  the  end  of  Born  and  Heisenberg's  report. 


89 


90 


From  matrix  to  quantum  mechanics 


stages  of  development  of  the  theory,  and  to  disentangling  various  threads 
of  interpretation  that  appear  to  be  present  in  Born  and  Heisenberg's 
report.  Before  that,  we  provide  a  summary  (section  13, ip  and  a  few 
remarks  on  the  authorship  and  writing  of  the  various  sections  of  the 
report  (section  l3~2|) . 

3.1  Summary  of  Born  and  Heisenberg's  report 

Born  and  Heisenberg's  report  has  four  sections  (together  with  an  in- 
troduction and  conclusion):  I  on  formalism,  II  on  interpretation,  III  on 
axiomatic  formulations  and  on  uncertainty,  and  IV  on  applications.  The 
formalism  that  is  described  is  initially  that  of  matrix  mechanics,  which 
is  then  extended  beyond  the  original  framework  (among  other  things,  in 
order  to  make  the  connection  with  Schrodinger's  wave  mechanics).  Then, 
further  developments  of  matrix  mechanics  are  sketched.  These  allow  one 
to  incorporate  a  'statistical'  interpretation.  After  a  brief  discussion  of 
Jordan's  (1927b, c  [39])  axiomatic  formulation,  the  uncertainty  relations 
are  used  to  justify  the  statistical  element  of  the  interpretation.  A  few 
applications  of  special  interest  and  some  brief  final  remarks  conclude  the 
report.  As  we  discuss  below,  Born  drafted  sections  I  and  II,  and  Heisen- 
berg  drafted  the  introduction,  sections  III  and  IV  and  the  conclusion. 

Born  and  Heisenberg's  introduction  stresses  the  continuity  of  quantum 
mechanics  with  the  old  quantum  theory  of  Planck,  Einstein  and  Bohr, 
and  touches  briefly  on  such  themes  as  discontinuity,  observability  in 
principle,  'Anschaulichkeit'  (for  which  see  section  14.61  below)  and  the 
statistical  element  in  quantum  mechanics. 

Section  I,  'The  mathematical  methods  of  quantum  mechanics',  first 
sketches  matrix  mechanics  roughly  as  developed  in  the  'three-man  paper' 
by  Born,  Heisenberg  and  Jordan  (1926  [4]):  the  basic  framework  of 
position  and  momentum  matrices  and  of  the  canonical  equations,  the 
perturbation  theory,  and  the  connection  with  the  theory  of  quadratic 
forms  (the  latter  leading  to  both  discrete  and  continuous  spectra)  0Next, 
Born  and  Heisenberg  describe  two  generalisations  of  matrix  mechanics: 
Dirac's  (1926a  [7])  q-number  theory  and  what  they  refer  to  as  Born  and 
Wiener's  (1926a  [21],  1926b)  operator  calculus.  As  a  matter  of  fact,  they 
already  sketch  von  Neumann's  representation  of  physical  quantities  by 

a  Note  that  Born  and  Heisenberg  use  the  term  'quantum  mechanics'  to  refer  also 
to  matrix  mechanics,  in  keeping  with  the  terminology  of  the  original  papers.  See 
also  Mehra  and  Rechenberg  (1982c,  fn.  72  on  pp.  61-2).  Heisenberg  expresses  his 
dislike  for  the  term  'matrix  physics'  in  Heisenberg  to  Pauli,  16  November  1925 
(Pauli,  1979,  pp.  255-6). 


3.1  Summary  of  Born  and  Heisenberg's  report  91 


operators  in  Hilbert  space.  This  is  identified  as  a  mathematically  rigorous 
version  of  the  transformation  theory  of  Dirac  (1927a  [38])  and  Jordan 
(1927b,c  [39])0  Born  and  Heisenberg  note  that,  if  one  takes  as  the  Hil- 
bert space  the  appropriate  function  space,  the  problem  of  diagonalising 
the  Hamiltonian  operator  leads  to  the  time-independent  Schrodinger 
equation.  Thus,  in  this  (formal)  sense,  the  Schrodinger  theory  is  a  special 
case  of  the  operator  version  of  quantum  mechanics.  The  eigenfunctions 
of  the  Hamiltonian  can  be  associated  with  the  unitary  transformation 
that  diagonalises  it.  Matrix  mechanics,  too,  is  a  special  case  of  this  more 
general  formalism,  if  one  takes  the  (discrete)  energy  eigenstates  as  the 
basis  for  the  matrix  representation. 

Section  II  on  'Physical  interpretation'  is  probably  the  most  striking. 
It  begins  by  stating  that  matrix  mechanics  describes  neither  the  actual 
state  of  a  system,  nor  when  changes  in  the  actual  state  take  place,  sugge- 
sting that  this  is  related  to  the  idea  that  matrix  mechanics  describes  only 
closed  systems.  In  order  to  obtain  some  description  of  change,  one  must 
consider  open  systems.  Two  methods  for  doing  this  are  introduced.  First 
of  all,  following  Heisenberg  (1926b  [35])  and  Jordan  (1927a  [36]),  one  can 
consider  the  matrix  mechanical  description  of  two  coupled  systems  that 
are  in  resonance.  One  can  show  that  the  resulting  description  can  be 
interpreted  in  terms  of  quantum  jumps  between  the  energy  levels  of  the 
two  systems,  with  an  explicit  expression  for  the  transition  probabilities. 
The  second  method  uses  the  generalised  formalism  of  section  I,  in  which 
time  dependence  can  be  introduced  explicitly  via  the  time-dependent 
Schrodinger  equation.  Again,  expressions  can  be  found  that  can  be  in- 
terpreted as  transition  probabilities,  and  similarly  the  squared  modulus 
of  the  wave  function's  coefficients  in  the  energy  basis  is  interpreted 
as  the  probability  for  the  occurrence  of  the  corresponding  stationary 
state.  Born  and  Heisenberg  introduce  the  notion  of  interference  of  pro- 
babilities. Only  at  this  stage  are  experiments  mentioned  as  playing  a 
conceptually  crucial  role,  namely  in  an  argument  why  such  interference 
'does  not  represent  a  contradiction  with  the  rules  of  the  probability 
calculus'  (p.  [423]).  Interference  is  then  related  to  the  wave  theory  of  de 
Broglie  and  Schrodinger,  and  the  interpretation  of  the  squared  modulus 
of  the  wave  function  as  a  probability  density  for  position  is  introduced. 

a  See  below,  sectionsl3.3.3landl3.4.1l  for  some  discussion  of  Born  and  Wiener's  work, 
and  section  [3.4.51  for  the  transformation  theory  (mainly  Dirac's).  Note  that  von 
Neumann  had  published  a  series  of  papers  on  the  Hilbert-space  formulation  of 
quantum  mechanics  before  his  well-known  treatise  of  1932.  It  is  to  two  of  these 
that  Born  and  Heisenberg  refer,  Hilbert,  von  Neumann  and  Nordheim  (1928  [41], 
submitted  April  1927)  and  von  Neumann  (1927  [42]). 


92 


From  matrix  to  quantum  mechanics 


Born  and  Heisenberg  also  define  the  'relative'  (i.e.  conditional)  position 
density  given  an  energy  value,  as  the  squared  modulus  of  the  amplitude 
of  a  stationary  state.  Finally,  in  the  context  of  Dirac's  and  Jordan's 
transformation  theory,  the  notions  of  transition  probability  (for  a  single 
quantity)  and  of  conditional  probability  (for  a  pair  of  quantities)  are 
generalised  to  arbitrary  physical  quantities. 

Section  III  opens  with  a  concise  exposition  of  Jordan's  (1927b, c  [39]) 
axioms  for  quantum  mechanics,  which  take  the  notion  of  probability 
amplitude  as  primary.  Born  and  Heisenberg  point  out  some  formal  dra- 
wbacks, such  as  the  use  of  ^-functions  and  the  presence  of  unobservable 
phases  in  the  probability  amplitudes.  They  note  that  such  drawbacks 
have  been  overcome  by  the  formulation  of  von  Neumann  (which  they 
do  not  go  on  to  discuss  further).  Born  and  Heisenberg  then  proceed  to 
discuss  in  particular  whether  the  statistical  element  in  the  theory  can  be 
reconciled  with  macroscopic  determinism.  To  this  effect  they  first  justify 
the  necessity  of  using  probabilistic  notions  by  appeal  to  the  notion  of 
uncertainty  (discussed  using  the  example  of  diffraction  of  light  by  a  single 
slit);  then  they  point  out  that,  while  for  instance  in  cases  of  diffraction 
the  laws  of  propagation  of  the  probabilities  in  quantum  mechanics  are 
very  different  from  the  classical  evolution  of  a  probability  density,  there 
are  cases  where  the  two  coincide  to  a  very  good  approximation;  they 
write  that  this  justifies  the  classical  treatment  of  a-  and  /3-particles  in  a 
cloud  chamber. 

Section  IV  discusses  briefly  some  applications,  chosen  for  their  'close 
relation  to  questions  of  principle'  (p.  1432ft .  Mostly,  these  applications 
highlight  the  importance  of  the  generalised  formalism  (introduced  in 
section  I) ,  by  going  beyond  matrix  mechanics  proper  or  wave  mechanics 
proper.  The  first  example  is  that  of  spin,  which,  requiring  finite  matrices, 
is  taken  to  be  a  problematic  concept  for  wave  mechanics  (but  not  for 
matrix  mechanics).  The  main  example  is  given  by  the  discussion  of 
identical  particles,  the  Pauli  principle  and  quantum  statistics.  Born  and 
Heisenberg  note  that  the  choice  of  whether  the  wave  function  should 
be  symmetric  or  antisymmetric  appears  to  be  arbitrary.  They  note,  mo- 
reover, that  the  appropriate  choice  arises  naturally  if  one  quantises  the 
normal  modes  of  a  black  body,  leading  to  Bose-Einstein  statistics,  or,  if 
one  adopts  Jordan's  (1927d  [54])  quantisation  procedure,  to  Fermi-Dirac 
statistics^  Finally,  Born  and  Heisenberg  comment  on  Dirac's  quantum 

a  The  general  discussion  returns  to  these  issues  in  more  detail;  see  for  instance 
Dirac's  critical  remarks  on  Jordan's  procedure,  p. 15011 


3.2  Writing  of  the  report 


93 


electrodynamics  (Dirac  1927b, c  [51,52]),  noting  in  particular  that  it 
yields  the  transition  probabilities  for  spontaneous  emission. 

The  conclusion  discusses  quantum  mechanics  as  a  'closed  theory'  (see 
section  13.4.71  below)  and  addresses  the  question  of  whether  indetermi- 
nism  in  quantum  mechanics  is  fundamental.  In  particular,  Born  and 
Heisenberg  state  that  the  assumption  of  indeterminism  agrees  with  ex- 
perience and  that  the  treatment  of  electrodynamics  will  not  modify  this 
state  of  affairs.  They  conclude  by  noting  that  the  existing  problems 
concern  rather  the  development  of  a  fully  relativistic  theory  of  quantum 
electrodynamics,  but  that  there  is  progress  also  in  this  direction. 

The  discussion  is  comparatively  brief.  Dirac  describes  the  analogy  bet- 
ween the  matrix  method  and  the  Hamilton-Jacobi  theory.  Then  Lorentz 
makes  a  few  remarks,  in  particular  emphasising  that  the  freedom  to 
choose  the  phases  in  the  matrices  q  and  p,  ([2])  and  ([5])  below,  is  not 
limited  to  a  different  choice  of  the  time  origin,  a  possibility  already  noted 
by  Heisenberg  (1925b  [1]),  but  extends  to  arbitrary  phase  factors  of  the 
form  el(Sm~Sn\  as  noted  by  Born  and  Jordan  (1925  [2])Q  According  to 
Lorentz,  this  fact  suggests  that  the  'true  oscillators'  are  associated  with 
the  different  stationary  states  rather  than  with  the  spectral  frequencies.1 
The  last  few  and  brief  contributions  address  the  question  of  the  phases  0 


3.2  Writing  of  the  report 

The  respective  contributions  by  Born  and  by  Heisenberg  to  the  report 
become  clear  from  their  correspondence  with  Lorentz.  As  mentioned  in 
chapter  [H  Lorentz  had  originally  planned  to  have  a  report  on  quantum 
mechanics  from  either  Born  or  Heisenberg,  leaving  to  them  the  choice 
of  who  was  to  write  it.  In  reply,  Born  and  Heisenberg  suggested  that 
they  would  provide  a  joint  report.2  Heisenberg  was  going  to  visit  Born 
in  Gottingen  in  early  July  1927,  on  which  occasion  they  would  decide 
on  the  structure  of  the  report  and  divide  up  the  work,  planning  to  meet 
again  in  August  to  finish  it.  The  report  (as  requested  by  Lorentz)  would 
include  the  results  by  Dirac,  who  was  in  Gottingen  at  the  time@  As  Born 

a  This  corresponds  of  course  to  the  choice  of  a  phase  factor  for  each  energy  state. 

b  As  mentioned  in  footnote  on  p.  1231  Bohr  suggested  to  omit  this  entire  discussion 
from  the  published  proceedings. 

c  Dirac  was  in  Gottingen  from  February  1927  to  the  end  of  June,  after  having 
spent  September  to  February  in  Copenhagen.  Dirac's  paper  on  transformation 
theory  (1927a  [38])  and  his  paper  on  emission  and  absorption  (Dirac  1927b  [51]) 
were  written  in  Copenhagen,  while  the  paper  on  dispersion  (Dirac  1927c  [52])  was 
written  in  Gottingen.  Compare  Kragh  (1990,  ch.  2.  pp.  37  ff.). 


94 


From  matrix  to  quantum  mechanics 


explains,  the  report  would  'above  all  emphasise  the  viewpoints  that  are 
presumably  taken  less  into  account  by  Schrodinger,  namely  the  stati- 
stical conception  of  quantum  mechanics'.  Either  author,  or  both,  could 
orally  present  the  report  at  the  conference  (Heisenberg,  in  a  parallel 
letter,  suggested  that  Born  should  be  the  appropriate  choice,  since  he 
was  the  senior  scientist3);  Born  and  Heisenberg  could  also  give  additional 
explanations  in  English.  Born  did  not  speak  French,  nor  (Born  thought) 
did  Heisenberg. 

In  a  later  letter,4  Born  reports  that  Heisenberg  had  sent  him  at  the  end 
of  July  the  draft  of  introduction,  conclusion  and  sections  III  and  IV,  upon 
which  Born  had  written  sections  I  and  II,  reworked  Heisenberg's  draft, 
and  sent  everything  back  to  Heisenberg.  Heisenberg  in  turn  had  made 
some  further  small  changes.  Due  to  illness  and  a  small  operation,  Born 
had  been  unable  to  go  to  Munich  in  mid- August,  so  that  he  had  not  seen 
the  changes.  He  trusted,  however,  that  he  would  agree  with  the  details 
of  Heisenberg's  final  version@  Born  also  mentions  that  Heisenberg  and 
himself  would  like  to  go  through  the  text  again,  at  least  at  proof  staged 
The  presentation  would  be  split  between  Born  (introduction  and  sections 
I  and  II)  and  Heisenberg  (sections  III  and  IV  and  conclusion).  Born 
concludes  with  the  following  words:  'It  would  be  particularly  important 
for  us  to  come  to  an  agreement  with  Schrodinger  regarding  the  physical 
interpretation  of  the  quantum  formalisms'. 

3.3  Formalism 

3.3.1  Before  matrix  mechanics 

In  the  old  Bohr-Sommerfeld  theory,  electron  orbits  are  described  as 
classical  Kepler  orbits  subject  to  additional  constraints  (the  'quantum 
conditions'),  yielding  discrete  stationary  states.  Such  a  procedure,  in 
Born  and  Heisenberg's  introduction,  is  criticised  as  artificialEI  An  atom  is 
assumed  to  'jump'  between  its  various  stationary  states,  and  energy  dif- 
ferences between  stationary  states  are  related  to  the  spectral  frequencies 

a  Heisenberg  had  sent  the  final  text  to  Lorentz  on  24  August.5 

b  The  published  version  and  the  typescript  show  only  minor  discrepancies,  and  many 
of  these  are  clearly  mistakes  in  the  published  version  (detailed  in  our  endnotes  to 
the  report).  This  and  the  fact  that  Born  and  Heisenberg  appear  not  to  have  spoken 
French  suggests  that  there  was  in  fact  no  proofreading  on  their  part. 

c  The  remark  is  rather  brief,  but  note  that  Born  and  Heisenberg  seem  to  consider 
the  introduction  of  photons  into  the  classical  electromagnetic  theory  (a  corpuscular 
discontinuity)  to  be  as  artificial  as  the  introduction  of  discrete  stationary  states 
into  classical  mechanics. 


3.3  Formalism 


95 


via  Bohr's  frequency  condition.  Spectral  frequencies  and  orbital  frequen- 
cies, however,  appear  to  be  quite  unrelated.  This  is  the  crucial  'radiation 
problem'  of  the  old  quantum  theory  (see  also  below,  section  |4~4|) . 

The  BKS  theory  of  radiation^]  includes  a  rather  different  picture  of 
the  atom,  and  arguably  provides  a  solution  to  the  radiation  problem 
just  mentioned.  In  the  BKS  theory,  one  associates  to  each  atom  a  set  of 
'virtual'  oscillators,  with  frequencies  equal  to  the  spectral  frequencies. 
Specifically,  when  the  atom  is  in  the  stationary  state  n,  the  oscillators 
that  are  excited  are  those  with  frequencies  corresponding  to  transiti- 
ons from  the  energy  En  to  both  lower  and  higher  energy  levels.  These 
oscillators  produce  a  virtual  radiation  field,  which  propagates  (classi- 
cally) according  to  Maxwell's  equations  and  interacts  (non-classically) 
with  the  virtual  oscillators,  in  particular  influencing  the  probabilities 
for  induced  emission  and  absorption  in  other  atoms  and  determining 
the  probabilities  for  spontaneous  emission  in  the  atom  itself.  The  actual 
emission  or  absorption  of  energy  is  associated  with  the  corresponding 
transition  between  stationary  states.  Note  that  an  emission  in  one  atom 
is  not  connected  directly  to  an  absorption  in  another,  so  that  energy  and 
momentum  are  conserved  only  statistically. 

Several  important  results  derived  by  developing  correspondence  ar- 
guments into  translation  rules  from  classical  to  quantum  expressions 
were  formulated  within  the  context  of  the  BKS  theory,  in  particular 
Kramers'  (1924)  dispersion  theory.  Other  examples  were  Born's  (1924) 
perturbation  formula,  Kramers  and  Heisenberg's  (1925)  joint  paper  on 
dispersion  and  Heisenberg's  (1925a)  paper  on  polarisation  of  fluorescence 
radiation^  The  same  arguments  also  led  to  a  natural  reformulation  of 
the  quantum  conditions  independent  of  the  old  'classical  models'  (Kuhn 
1925,  Thomas  1925).  As  first  argued  by  Pauli  (1925),  such  results  were 
entirely  independent  of  the  presumed  mechanism  of  radiation@ 

Indeed,  after  the  demise  of  the  BKS  theory  following  the  experimental 
verification  of  the  conservation  laws  in  the  Bothe-Geiger  experiments, 
these  results  and  the  corresponding  techniques  of  symbolic  translation 
formed  the  basis  for  Heisenberg's  formulation  of  matrix  mechanics  in 
his  famous  paper  of  1925  (Heisenberg  1925b  [1]).  Heisenberg's  stroke  of 
genius  was  to  give  up  altogether  the  kinematical  description  in  terms  of 
spatial  coordinates,  while  retaining  the  classical  form  of  the  equations 

a  See  also  the  description  in  section  0*731 

b  See  Darrigol  (1992,  pp.  224-46)  and  Mehra  and  Rechenberg  (1982b,  sections  III. 4 
and  III.5). 

c  Cf.  Darrigol  (1992,  pp.  244-5).  Cf.  also  Jordan  (1927e  [63]),  among  others. 


96 


From  matrix  to  quantum  mechanics 


of  motion,  to  be  solved  under  suitably  reformulated  quantum  conditions 
(those  of  Kuhn  and  Thomas).  While  Heisenberg  had  dropped  both  the 
mechanism  of  radiation  and  the  older  electronic  orbits,  there  were  points 
of  continuity  with  the  BKS  theory  and  with  the  old  quantum  theory; 
in  particular,  as  we  shall  see,  the  new  variables  were  at  least  formally 
related  to  the  virtual  oscillators,  and  the  picture  of  quantum  jumps  was 
retained,  at  least  for  the  time  being. 


3.3.2  Matrix  mechanics 

Heisenberg's  original  paper  is  rather  different  from  the  more  definitive 
presentations  of  matrix  mechanics:  the  equations  are  given  in  Newtonian 
(not  Hamiltonian)  form,  energy  conservation  is  not  established  to  all 
orders,  and,  as  is  well  known,  Heisenberg  at  first  had  not  recognised 
that  his  theory  used  the  mathematical  machinery  of  matrices.  Like  Born 
and  Heisenberg  in  their  report,  we  shall  accordingly  follow  in  this  section 
mainly  the  papers  by  Born  and  Jordan  (1925  [2])  and  Born,  Heisenberg 
and  Jordan  (1926  [4]),  as  well  as  the  book  by  Born  (1926d,e  [58]), 
supplementing  the  report  with  more  details  when  useful. 

Kinematically,  the  description  of  'motion'  in  matrix  mechanics  gene- 
ralises that  given  by  the  set  of  the  components  of  a  classical  Fourier 
series, 

qne^mvt  (1) 

(and  thus  generalises  the  idea  of  a  periodic  motion).  As  frequencies,  one 
chooses,  instead  of  v(n)  —  nv,  the  transition  frequencies  of  the  system 
under  consideration,  which  are  required  to  obey  Ritz's  combination  prin- 
ciple, Vij  =  Ti  —  Tj  (relating  the  frequencies  to  the  spectroscopic  terms 
Tj  =  Ei/h,  or,  in  Born  and  Heisenberg's  notation,  Ti  =  Wi/h).  The 
components  thus  defined  form  a  doubly  infinite  array: 
qne2niullt    qi2e2*iv12t  \ 

(2) 


q 


J 


From  the  combination  principle  for  the  Vij,  it  follows  that  Vij  =  —Vji- 
Further,  it  is  required  of  the  (generally  complex)  amplitudes  that 

Qji  =  Qij  ,  (3) 

by  analogy  with  a  classical  Fourier  series,  so  that  the  array  is  in  fact  a 
Hermitian  matrix. 


3.3  Formalism 


97 


In  modern  notation,  the  above  matrix  consists  of  the  elements  of  the 
position  observable  (in  Heisenberg  picture)  in  the  energy  basis.  For  a 
closed  system  with  Hamiltonian  H,  these  indeed  take  the  form 


Q(t)  \Ej)  =  (£,|  eWHtQ(0)e-WHt  \Ej) 
=  (Ei\Q(0)\Ej)e^H^Ei-E^t  . 


(4) 


Along  with  the  position  matrix  q,  one  considers  also  a  momentum 
matrix: 

/  piie2™11*    p12e2ml/12t    . . 


P 


p2ie2niu21t     p22e2™22t     ...     I  (5) 


V 


as  well  as  all  other  matrix  quantities  that  can  be  obtained  as  functions  of 
q  and  p,  defined  as  polynomials  or  as  power  series  (leaving  aside  questions 
of  convergence).  Again  from  the  combination  principle,  it  follows  that 
under  multiplication  of  two  such  matrices,  one  obtains  another  matrix 
of  the  same  form  (i.e.  with  the  same  time-dependent  phases).  Thus  one 
justifies  taking  these  two-dimensional  arrays  as  matrices.  The  most  gene- 
ral physical  quantity  in  matrix  mechanics  is  a  matrix  whose  elements  (in 
modern  terminology)  are  the  elements  of  an  arbitrary  Heisenberg-picture 
observable  in  the  energy  basis. 

The  values  of  these  matrices  (in  particular  the  amplitudes  qij  and  the 
frequencies  i/y)  will  have  to  be  determined  by  solving  the  equations 
of  motion  under  some  suitable  quantum  conditions.  Specifically,  the 
equations  of  motion  are  postulated  to  be  the  analogues  of  the  classical 
Hamiltonian  equations: 

dq      OH         dp  _  dH 

dt  ~  ~dp~'        dt  ~  ~~dq~  '  (  ' 

where  H  is  a  suitable  matrix  function  of  q  and  p.  The  quantum  conditions 
are  formulated  as 

h 

pq  -  qp  =  —  ■  1  ,  (7) 

where  1  is  the  identity  matrix.  In  the  limit  of  large  quantum  numbers, 
(7J)  corresponds  to  the  'old'  quantum  conditions. 

Of  course,  differentiation  with  respect  to  t  and  with  respect  to  matrix 
arguments  need  to  be  suitably  defined.  The  former  is  defined  elementwise 
as 

fij  =  2mi/ijfij  ,  (8) 


98 


From  matrix  to  quantum  mechanics 


which  can  be  written  equivalently  as 

f  =  —(Wf-fW),  (9) 

where  W  is  the  diagonal  matrix  with  Wij  =  WiSij.  Differentiation  with 
respect  to  matrix  arguments  is  defined  (in  slightly  modernised  form)  as 

dj_  =  lim  nx+ai)-m 

dx     a^o  a 
where  the  limit  is  also  understood  element  wise  Q 

Once  the  preceding  scheme  has  been  set  up,  the  next  question  is  how 
to  go  about  solving  the  equations  of  motion.  First,  for  the  special  case 
of  differentiation  with  respect  to  q  or  p,  one  shows  that 


and 


(by  induction  on  the  form  of  /  and  using  JJJ).  From  this  and  from  @, 
one  can  easily  show  that  the  equations  of  motion  are  equivalent  to 

Wq-qW  =  Hq-  qH  (13) 

and 

Wp-pW  =  Hp-pH  .  (14) 

Thus,  W  —  H  commutes  with  both  q  and  p,  and  therefore  also  with  H. 
It  follows  that 

WH-HW  =  0,  (15) 

which  by  iJH)  means  that 

H  =  0,  (16) 

that  is,  energy  is  conserved.  In  the  non-degenerate  case,  it  follows  that 
H  is  a  diagonal  matrix.  Denoting  its  diagonal  terms  by  Hi,  (fT3|l  yields 
further  the  Bohr  frequency  condition, 

Hi  -  Hj  =Wi-  Wj  =  huij  ,  (17) 

and  fixing  an  arbitrary  constant  one  can  set  H  =  W.  The  above  proof 
shows  also  that  conversely,  lfl6|).  (fl7|)  and  the  commutation  relations 

a  This  definition  was  agreed  upon  after  some  debate.  See  Mehra  and  Rechenberg 
(1982c,  pp.  69-71  and  97-100). 


3.3  Formalism 


99 


imply  the  equations  of  motion.  Therefore,  the  problem  of  solving  the 
equations  of  motion  essentially  reduces  to  that  of  diagonalising  the  ener- 
gy matrix. 

This  discussion  leads  also  to  the  notion  of  a  'canonical  transformation' 
(a  transformation  that  leaves  the  equations  of  motion  invariant)  as  a 
transformation  that  preserves  the  commutation  relations.  Obviously  any 
transformation  of  the  form 

Q  =  SqS-\       P^SpS-1  (18) 

(with  S  invertible)  will  be  such  a  transformation,  and  it  was  conjectured 
that  these  were  the  most  general  canonical  transformations.  At  this 
stage,  S  is  required  only  to  be  invertible;  indeed,  the  notion  of  unitarity 
has  not  been  introduced  yet.  If  H  is  a  suitably  symmetrised  function  of 
q  and  p,  however,  it  will  also  be  a  Hermitian  matrix,  and  the  problem 
of  diagonalising  it  can  be  solved  using  the  theory  of  quadratic  forms 
of  infinitely  many  variables  (assuming  that  the  theory  as  known  at  the 
time  extends  also  to  unbounded  quadratic  forms).  In  particular,  it  will 
be  possible  to  diagonalise  H  using  a  unitary  S,  which  also  guarantees 
that  the  new  coordinates  Q  and  P  will  be  Hermitian. 

What  does  such  a  solution  to  the  equations  of  motion  yield?  In  the  first 
place,  one  obtains  the  values  of  the  frequencies  Vij  and  of  the  energies  Wi 
(along  with  the  values  of  other  conserved  quantities).  In  the  second  place, 
based  on  correspondence  arguments,  one  can  identify  the  diagonal  ele- 
ments of  a  matrix  with  'time  average'  in  the  respective  stationary  statesjf] 
and  relate  the  squared  amplitudes  \qij\2  to  the  intensities  of  spontaneous 
emission,  or  equivalently  to  the  corresponding  transition  probabilities 
between  stationary  statesQ  This,  however,  is  not  an  argument  based  on 
first  principles.  Indeed,  as  Born  and  Heisenberg  repeatedly  stress,  matrix 
mechanics  in  the  above  form  describes  a  closed,  conservative  system, 
in  which  no  change  should  take  place.  As  Born  and  Heisenberg  note  in 
section  II,  actual  transfer  of  energy  is  to  be  expected  only  when  the  atom 
is  coupled  to  some  other  system,  specifically  the  radiation  field.  Born 
and  Jordan's  paper  (1925  [2])  and  Born,  Heisenberg  and  Jordan's  paper 
(1926  [4])  include  a  first  attempt  at  treating  the  radiation  field  quantum 
mechanically  and  at  justifying  the  assumed  interpretation  of  the  squared 
amplitudes.  A  satisfactory  treatment  of  spontaneous  radiation  was  later 

a  The  concept  of  'time  averages'  can  also  be  thought  of  as  related  to  the  BKS  theory, 
as  remarked  by  Heisenberg  himself  in  a  letter  to  Einstein  of  February  1926. 6 

b  The  determination  of  intensities  had  been  a  pressing  problem  since  the  work  by 
Born  (1924)  and  the  'Utrecht  observations'  referred  to  in  the  report  (v.  14110.  See 
Darrigol  (1992,  pp.  234-5). 


100  From  matrix  to  quantum  mechanics 

given  by  Dirac  (1927b  [51]),  as  also  mentioned  in  the  report@In  the  third 
place,  by  setting  up  relations  between  the  amplitudes  qij  and  the  matrix 
elements  of  other  conserved  quantities  such  as  angular  momentum,  one 
is  able  to  identify  which  transitions  are  possible  between  states  with 
the  corresponding  quantum  numbers  (derivation  of  'selection  rules'). 
Expectation  values,  other  than  in  the  form  of  time  averages  for  the 
stationary  states,  are  lacking. 

It  should  be  clear  that  matrix  mechanics  in  its  historical  formulation 
is  not  to  be  identified  with  today's  quantum  mechanics  in  the  Heisen- 
berg  picture.  The  matrices  allowed  as  solutions  in  matrix  mechanics 
are  basis-dependent.  Moreover,  quite  apart  from  the  fact  that  solutions 
to  the  equations  of  motion  are  hard  to  find@  the  results  obtained  are 
relatively  modest.  In  particular,  there  are  no  general  expectation  values 
for  physical  quantities.  In  discussing  both  the  mathematical  formalism 
and  the  physical  interpretation,  Born  and  Heisenberg  suggest  that  the 
original  matrix  theory  is  inadequate  and  in  need  of  extension. 


3.3.3  Formal  extensions  of  matrix  mechanics 

As  presented  in  the  report,  the  chief  formal  rather  than  interpretational 
difficulty  for  matrix  mechanics  is  the  failure  to  describe  aperiodic  quan- 
tities. As  we  have  seen,  the  matrices  were  understood  as  a  generalisation 
of  classical  Fourier  series.  Strictly  speaking,  if  one  follows  this  analogy,  a 
periodic  quantity  is  represented  by  a  discrete  (if  doubly  infinite)  matrix, 
and  one  can  envisage  representing  aperiodic  quantities  by  continuous 
matrices  —  analogously  to  the  representation  of  classical  quantities  by 
Fourier  integrals.  Indeed,  already  Heisenberg  (1925b  [1])  points  out  that 
his  quadratic  arrays  would  have  in  general  both  a  periodic  part  (discrete) 
and  an  aperiodic  part  (continuous).  The  connection  between  matrices 
and  quadratic  forms  showed  in  fact  that  matrices  in  general  had  also 
a  continous  spectrum  (if  the  theory  extended  to  the  unbounded  case). 
Still,  continuous  matrices  are  unwieldy,  and  in  certain  cases  the  matrix 
elements  (which  are  always  evaluated  in  the  energy  basis)  will  become 
singular,  as  when  trying  to  describe  a  free  particle.  (This  is  not  at  all 
surprising,  considering  that  also  in  the  classical  analogy  the  Fourier 
integral  of  the  function  at  +  b  fails  to  converge.) 

a  Note  that  by  this  time  Dirac  (1927a  [38])  had  already  introduced  a  probabilistic 

interpretation  based  on  the  transformation  theory, 
a  In  particular,  one  was  unable  to  introduce  action-angle  variables  to  solve  the 

Hamiltonian  equations  as  in  classical  mechanics;  cf.  Born  and  Heisenberg's  remarks 

on  'aperiodic  motions'. 


3.3  Formalism 


101 


This  problem  was  addressed  by  generalising  the  notion  of  a  matrix 
to  that  of  a  q-number  (Dirac  1926a  [7])  and  to  that  of  an  operator 
(Born  and  Wiener  1926a  [21],  1926b).  Dirac's  q-numbers  are  abstract 
objects  that  are  assumed  to  form  a  noncommutative  algebra,  while  Born 
and  Wiener's  operators  are  characterised  not  by  their  elements  in  some 
basis,  but  by  their  action  on  a  space  of  functions.  In  both  approaches, 
one  can  deal  with  aperiodic  quantities  and  quantities  with  a  singular 
matrix  representation. 

Born  and  Wiener's  approach  is  the  lesser-known  of  the  two,  and  shall 
therefore  be  briefly  sketched^  The  operators  in  question  are  linear  opera- 
tors acting  on  a  space  of  functions  x(t)  (which  are  not  given  any  specific 
physical  interpretation).  These  functions  are  understood  as  generalising 
the  functions  having  the  form 


That  is,  they  generalise  the  functions  that  can  be  written  in  a  Fourier-like 
series  with  frequencies  equal  to  the  spectral  frequencies.  Therefore,  the 
operators  generalise  the  matrices  that  act  on  infinite-dimensional  vectors 
indexed  by  the  energy  values,  i.e.  they  generalise  the  matrices  in  the 
energy  basis.  By  using  these  operators,  Born  and  Wiener  free  themselves 
from  the  need  to  operate  with  the  matrix  elements,  and  they  are  able  to 
solve  the  equations  of  motion  explicitly  for  systems  more  general  than 
those  treated  in  matrix  mechanics  until  then.  Their  main  example  is  the 
(aperiodic)  one-dimensional  free  particle. 

Instead  of  presenting  this  formalism,  however,  in  the  report  Born 
and  Heisenberg  present  directly  von  Neumann's  formalism  of  operators 
on  Hilbert  space  (evidently  but  tacitly  considering  Born  and  Wiener's 
formalism  as  its  natural  precursor).  They  note  that  in  this  formalism  it 
is  possible  to  consider  matrices  in  arbitrary,  even  continuous  bases,  and 
they  use  this  fact  to  make  the  connection  with  Schrodinger's  theory. 
In  particular,  they  point  out  that  solving  the  (time-independent)  Schro- 
dinger  equation  is  equivalent  to  diagonalising  the  Hamiltonian  quadratic 
form,  in  the  sense  that  the  set  of  Schrodinger  eigenfunctions  ip(q,  W) 
(wave  functions  in  q  indexed  by  W)  yields  the  transformation  matrix  S 
from  the  position  basis  to  the  energy  basis.  Thus  one  can  use  the  familiar 
methods  of  partial  differential  equations  to  diagonalise 

a  Born  and  Wiener  published  two  very  similar  papers  on  their  operator  theory,  one 

in  German,  referred  to  in  the  report  (1926a  [21]),  and  one  in  English  (1926b). 
b  Cf.  below,  section [3.4.51  The  connection  between  matrix  and  wave  mechanics  was 


oo 


(19) 


102 


From  matrix  to  quantum  mechanics 


Despite  providing  very  useful  formal  extensions  of  matrix  mechanics, 
the  q-numbers  and  the  operators  (at  least  as  presented  in  section  I  of  the 
report)  do  not  provide  further  insights  into  the  physical  interpretation 
of  the  theory.  In  the  following  section  II,  on  'Physical  interpretation', 
Born  and  Heisenberg  discuss  the  problem  of  describing  actual  states 
and  processes  in  matrix  mechanics,  suitably  extended,  and  the  surprising 
ramifications  of  this  problem. 

3.4  Interpretation 

Born  and  Heisenberg's  section  II  begins  with  the  following  statement 
(p.  ED: 

The  most  noticeable  defect  of  the  original  matrix  mechanics  consists  in  the 
fact  that  at  first  it  appears  to  give  information  not  about  actual  phenomena, 
but  rather  only  about  possible  states  and  processes.  It  allows  one  to  calculate 
the  possible  stationary  states  of  a  system;  further  it  makes  a  statement  about 
the  nature  of  the  harmonic  oscillation  that  can  manifest  itself  as  a  light  wave 
in  a  quantum  jump.  But  it  says  nothing  about  when  a  given  state  is  present,  or 
when  a  change  is  to  be  expected.  The  reason  for  this  is  clear:  matrix  mechanics 
deals  only  with  closed  periodic  systems,  and  in  these  there  are  indeed  no 
changes.  In  order  to  have  true  processes,  as  long  as  one  remains  in  the  domain 
of  matrix  mechanics,  one  must  direct  one's  attention  to  a  part  of  the  system; 
this  is  no  longer  closed  and  enters  into  interaction  with  the  rest  of  the  system. 
The  question  is  what  matrix  mechanics  can  tell  us  about  this. 

(This  is  again  one  of  the  sections  originally  drafted  by  Born.)  As  raised 
here,  the  question  to  be  addressed  is  how  to  incorporate  into  matrix 
mechanics  the  (actual)  state  of  a  system,  and  the  time  development 
of  such  a  state.  The  discussion  given  in  the  report  may  give  rise  to 
some  confusion,  because  it  arguably  contains  at  least  two,  if  not  three, 
disparate  approaches  to  what  is  a  state  in  quantum  mechanics.  The  first, 
reflected  in  the  above  quotation,  is  the  idea  that  a  state  of  a  system  is 
always  a  stationary  state,  which  stems  from  Bohr's  quantum  theory  and 
which  appears  to  have  lived  on  through  the  BKS  phase  until  well  into  the 
development  of  matrix  mechanics,  indeed  at  least  as  late  as  Heisenberg's 

discovered  independently  by  Schrodinger  (1926d),  Eckart  (1926  [22])  and  Pauli 
(Pauli  to  Jordan,  12  April  1926,  in  Pauli  1979,  pp.  315-20).  For  a  description  of 
the  various  contributions,  including  the  work  of  Lanczos  (1926  [23]),  see  Mehra 
and  Rechenberg  (1987,  pp.  636-84).  Muller  (1997)  argues  that  matrix  mechanics 
and  wave  mechanics,  as  formulated  and  understood  at  the  time,  were  nevertheless 
inequivalent  theories.  For  concrete  examples  in  which  the  two  theories  were  indeed 
considered  to  yield  different  predictions,  see  below  p. [143]  (including  the  footnote) 
and  the  discussion  on  p.  14691 


3.4  Interpretation 


103 


paper  on  resonance  (Heisenberg  1926b  [35]).  The  second  is  the  idea  that 
the  state  of  a  system  is  given  by  its  wave  function,  but  it  is  bound  up 
with  the  question  of  whether  the  latter  should  be  seen  as  a  'spread-out' 
entity,  a  'guiding  field',  a  'statistical  state'  or  something  elseQ  Born's 
papers  on  collisions  (Born  1926a, b  [30])  can  be  said  to  contain  elements 
of  both  these  approaches.  Yet  a  third  approach  may  well  be  present  in 
the  report,  an  approach  in  which  the  notion  of  state  would  be  purely  an 
effective  one.  Some  pronouncements  by  Heisenberg,  in  correspondence 
and  in  the  uncertainty  paper  (Heisenberg  1927  [46]),  may  support  this 
further  (tentative)  suggestion. 

It  seems  to  us  that  Born  and  Heisenberg's  statements  become  clearer 
if  one  is  aware  of  the  different  backgrounds  to  their  discussion.  Accordin- 
gly, we  shall  discuss  in  turn,  briefly,  various  developments  that  appear 
to  have  fed  into  their  conception  of  quantum  mechanics,  in  particular 
previous  work  by  Born  and  Wiener  on  generalising  matrix  mechanics 
(section  l3.4.ip.  by  Born  on  guiding  fields  (section  l3.4.2|) .  by  Bohr  as 
well  as  famously  by  Born  on  collision  processes  (again  section  13.4.21  and 
section  [3.4. 3p.  by  Heisenberg  on  atoms  in  resonance  (section  [3.4. 4p  and 
by  Dirac  on  the  transformation  theory  (section  13 .4.5|) .  We  shall  then 
discuss  the  treatment  of  interpretational  issues  given  in  the  report  in 
sections [3.4.61  and  13.4.71  The  latter  includes  some  brief  comments  on  the 
notion  of  a  'closed  theory',  which  is  prominent  in  some  of  Heisenberg's 
later  writings  (e.g.  Heisenberg  1948),  and  which  appears  to  be  used  here 
for  the  first  time.  We  do  not  claim  to  have  settled  the  interpretational 
issues,  and  will  return  to  several  of  them  in  Part  II.  Overall,  the  'physical 
interpretation'  of  the  report  requires  careful  reading  and  assessment. 

3.4-1  Matrix  mechanics,  Born  and  Wiener 

As  we  have  seen,  in  the  old  quantum  theory  the  only  states  allowed  for 
atomic  systems  are  stationary  states,  understood  in  terms  of  classical 
orbits  subject  to  the  quantum  conditions  of  Bohr  and  Sommerfeld.  The 
same  is  true  in  the  BKS  theory,  where  stationary  states  become  more 
abstract  and  are  represented  by  the  collection  of  virtual  oscillators  cor- 
responding to  the  transitions  of  the  atom  from  a  given  energy  level.  In 
both  theories,  discontinuous  transitions  between  the  stationary  states, 
so-called  quantum  jumps,  are  assumed  to  occur.  Although  in  today's 
quantum  theory  one  usually  still  talks  about  discontinuous  transitions, 

a  Cf.  the  next  chapter. 


104 


From  matrix  to  quantum  mechanics 


these  are  associated  with  the  collapse  postulate  and  with  the  concept  of  a 
measurement.  The  states  performing  these  transitions  are  not  necessarily 
stationary  states,  i.e.  eigenstates  of  energy  (whether  one  describes  them 
dynamically  in  the  Schrodinger  picture  or  statically  in  the  Heisenberg 
picture). 

This  modern  notion  of  state  is  strikingly  absent  also  in  matrix  mecha- 
nics, as  we  have  seen  it  formulated  in  the  original  papers.  Indeed,  the 
interpretation  of  the  theory  is  still  ostensibly  in  terms  of  stationary  states 
and  quantum  jumps,  but  the  formalism  itself  contains  only  matrices, 
which  can  at  most  be  seen  as  a  collective  representation  of  all  stationary 
states,  in  the  following  sense.  The  matrix  J2])  incorporates  the  oscillations 
corresponding  to  all  possible  transitions  of  the  system.  Each  matrix 
element  is  formally  analogous  to  a  virtual  oscillator  with  frequency  = 
(Ei  —  Ej)/h  (corresponding  to  an  atomic  transition  Ei  — ►  Ej),  Therefore, 
each  row  (or  column)  contains  all  the  frequencies  corresponding  to  the 
transitions  from  (or  to)  a  given  energy  level,  much  like  a  stationary 
state  in  the  BKS  theory.  As  in  the  above  quotation,  the  matrix  can  thus 
be  seen  as  the  collective  representation  of  all  the  stationary  states  of  a 
closed  systemQ 

This  analysis  is  further  supported  by  examining  Born  and  Wiener's 
work,  in  which  the  picture  of  stationary  states  as  the  rows  of  the  position 
matrix  (now  the  position  operator)  becomes  even  more  explicit.  While 
the  functions  x(t)  remain  uninterpreted,  Born  and  Wiener  appear  to 
associate  the  'rows'  or,  rather,  the  'columns'  of  their  operators  with 
(stationary)  states  of  motion.  This  is  clear  from  the  following.  Born  and 
Wiener  introduce  a  notion  of  'column  sum',  that  is,  a  generalisation  of 
the  sum  of  the  elements  in  the  column  of  a  matrix.  In  discussing  their 
main  example,  the  free  particle,  they  then  show  that,  for  the  position 
operator,  this  generalised  column  sum  q(t,  W)  takes  the  form 


where  fi  is  the  mass  of  the  particle  and  F(W)  is  a  complex-valued 
expression  independent  of  t.  They  explicitly  draw  the  conclusion  that  at 
least  the  real  part  of  the  generalised  column  sum  represents  a  classical 
inertial  motion  with  the  energy  W. 

a  A  somewhat  similar  idea  appears  to  be  expressed  by  Dirac  at  the  beginning 
of  the  discussion  after  the  report  (p.  14410.  where  he  emphasises  the  parallel 
between  matrix  mechanics  and  classical  Hamiton-Jacobi  theory,  with  the  latter 
also  describing  not  single  trajectories  but  whole  families  of  trajectories. 


(20) 


3.4  Interpretation 


105 


Note  that  this  indicates  not  only  that  Born  and  Wiener  associate  the 
state  of  a  system  with  a  column  of  the  position  operator.  It  also  suggests 
that,  in  their  view,  at  least  a  limited  spatio-temporal  picture  of  particle 
trajectories  in  the  absence  of  interactions  is  possible  (analogously  to  the 
earlier  limited  use  of  spatio-temporal  pictures  in  describing  atomic  states 
in  the  absence  of  transitions). 

3-4-2  Born  and  Jordan  on  guiding  fields,  Bohr  on  collisions 

The  early  history  of  the  guiding  field  idea,  in  connection  with  Einstein 
and  with  the  BKS  theory  (in  the  case  of  photons),  and  in  connection 
with  de  Broglie  (in  the  case  of  both  photons  and  material  particles), 
is  discussed  mainly  in  chapters  [9]  and  El  respectively.  Slater's  original 
intention  was  in  fact  to  have  the  virtual  fields  to  be  guiding  fields  for  the 
photons,  which  were  to  carry  energy  and  momentum,  but  this  aspect 
was  not  incorporated  in  the  BKS  theory.  However,  after  this  theory 
was  rejected  precisely  because  of  the  results  on  energy  and  momentum 
conservation  in  individual  processes  (detailed,  for  instance,  in  Compton's 
report),  Slater's  original  idea  was  fleetingly  revived. 

On  24  April  1925,  after  learning  from  Franck  that  Bohr  had  in  fact 
given  up  the  BKS  theory,  Born  sent  Bohr  the  description  of  such  a 
proposal  (which,  as  he  wrote,  he  had  been  working  on  for  some  weeks 
with  Jordan).  A  manuscript  by  Born  and  Jordan  followed,  entitled  'Zur 
Strahlungstheorie',  which  is  found  today  in  the  Bohr  archives.  0  The 
proposal  combines  the  BKS  idea  of  emission  of  waves  while  the  atom 
is  in  a  stationary  state  with  the  emission  of  a  light  quantum  during 
an  instantaneous  quantum  jump,  in  order  to  give  a  spacetime  picture  of 
radiation.  The  light  quantum  thus  follows  the  rear  end  of  the  wave.  It  can 
be  scattered  or  absorbed  by  other  atoms  (both  processes  depending  on 
the  dipole  moment  of  the  appropriate  virtual  oscillators  in  the  atoms) , 
in  the  latter  case  leaving  a  'dead'  wave  that  has  no  further  physical 
effects.  Born  and  Jordan  had  applied  this  picture  with  some  success 
to  a  few  simple  examples,  and  were  intending  to  publish  the  idea  in 
Naturwissenschaften,  provided  Bohr  or  Kramers  did  not  find  fault  with 
it  (Bohr  1984,  pp.  84-5  and  308-10). 

Bohr  replied  on  1  May,  after  receipt  of  both  the  letter  and  the  manus- 
cript, criticising  the  proposal,  on  the  grounds,  first,  that  the  proposed 
mechanism  did  not  guarantee  that  the  trajectories  of  the  light  quanta 

a  Cf.  Darrigol  (1992,  p.  253).  We  are  especially  grateful  to  Olivier  Darrigol  for  helpful 
correspondence  on  this  matter. 


106 


From  matrix  to  quantum  mechanics 


would  coincide  with  the  propagation  of  the  wave,  and  second,  that  the 
cross  section  for  the  absorption  ought  to  be  a  constant  in  order  for  the 
particle  number  density  to  be  proportional  to  the  intensity  of  the  wave. 
Bohr  reiterated  the  beliefs  he  had  expressed  to  Franck:  that  the  coupling 
between  state  transitions  in  different  atoms  excluded  a  description  that 
used  anschaulich  pictures,  and  that  he  suspected  the  same  conclusion 
to  be  likely  in  the  case  of  collision  phenomena  (Bohr  1984,  pp.  85  and 
310-11)0 

Bohr's  work  on  collisions,  to  which  he  alluded  here,  was  an  extension  of 
the  BKS  idea  of  merely  statistical  conservation  laws  (Bohr  1925)0  The 
idea,  as  paraphrased  by  Born,  was  'to  regard  the  field  of  the  particle 
passing  by  in  the  same  way  as  the  field  of  a  light  wave;  thus,  it  only 
produces  a  probability  for  the  absorption  of  energy,  and  this  [absorption] 
only  occurs  when  the  "collision"  lasts  sufficiently  long  (the  particle  passes 
slowly)'  (Born  to  Bohr,  15  January  1925,  quoted  in  Bohr  1984,  p.  73) @ 
However,  the  Ramsauer  effect  —  the  anomalously  low  cross  section  of 
atoms  of  certain  gases  for  slow  electrons  —  could  not  be  accommodated 
in  Bohr's  scheme.  Bohr  therefore  was  developing  doubts  about  stati- 
stical conservation  laws  (and  further,  about  the  feasibility  altogether 
of  a  spacetime  picture  of  collision^)),  even  as  he  was  submitting  his 
paper  on  collisions 0  that  is,  even  before  the  results  of  the  Bothe-Geiger 
experiments  were  confirmed  in  April  1925.  Bohr's  paper  was  published 
only  after  Bohr  included  an  addendum  in  July  1925,  which  draws  the 
consequences  from  both  the  Bothe-Geiger  experiments  and  the  difficul- 
ties with  the  Ramsauer  effect.  In  the  same  month  of  July,  an  explanation 

a  See  Bohr  to  Franck,  21  April  1925,  in  Bohr  (1984,  pp.  350-51). 

a  Cf.  also  Darrigol  (1992,  pp.  249-51)  and  pp.  89-93  in  Stolzenburg's  introduction 
to  Part  I  of  Bohr  (1984). 

b  Another  colourful  paraphrase  is  in  Bohr  to  Franck,  30  March  1925:  'If  two  atoms 
have  the  possibility  of  settling  their  mutual  account,  it  is,  of  course,  simplest  that 
they  do  so.  However,  when  the  invoices  cannot  be  submitted  simultaneously,  they 
must  be  satisfied  with  a  running  account'  (quoted  in  Bohr  1984,  p.  74). 

c  One  of  the  most  striking  expressions  of  this  is  a  passage  in  Bohr  to  Heisenberg,  18 
April  1925:  'Stimulated  especially  by  talks  with  Pauli,  I  am  forcing  myself  these 
days  with  all  my  strength  to  familiarise  myself  with  the  mysticism  of  nature  and  am 
attempting  to  prepare  myself  for  all  eventualities,  indeed  even  for  the  assumption 
of  a  coupling  of  quantum  processes  in  separated  atoms.  However,  the  costs  of 
this  assumption  are  so  great  that  they  cannot  be  estimated  within  the  ordinary 
spacetime  description'  (Bohr  1984,  pp.  360-61).  For  other  qualms  about  such 
'quantum  nonlocality',  cf.  also  Jordan's  habilitation  lecture  (1927f  [62]),  in  which 
Jordan  considers  the  idea  of  microscopic  indeterminism  to  be  comprehensible  only 
if  the  elementary  random  events  are  independent.  (This  lecture  was  translated  into 
English  by  Oppenheimer  and  published  in  Nature  as  Jordan  (1927g).) 

d  The  paper  was  received  by  Zeitschrift  fur  Physik  on  30  March  1925;  on  that  very 
day  Bohr  was  expressing  his  doubts  in  a  letter  to  Franck  (Bohr  1984,  pp.  348-50). 


3.4  Interpretation 


107 


for  the  Ramsauer  effect  was  suggested  by  Elsasser  (1925)  in  Gottingen, 
on  the  basis  of  de  Broglie's  matter  waves. 

3.4.3  Bom's  collision  papers 

The  above  provides  a  useful  backdrop  for  discussing  Born's  own  work 
on  collisions  (Born  1926a, b  [30]) 0  which  treats  collision  problems  on  the 
basis  of  Schrodinger's  wave  mechanics^ 

This  work  also  reflects  the  idea  that  the  states  of  a  system  are  statio- 
nary states  undergoing  transitions.  Indeed,  Born  presents  the  problem 
as  that  of  including  in  matrix  mechanics  a  description  of  the  transitions 
between  stationary  states.  The  case  of  collisions,  say  between  an  atom 
and  an  electron,  is  chosen  as  the  simplest  for  treating  this  problem  (while 
still  leading  to  interesting  predictions),  because  it  is  natural  to  expect 
that  in  this  case  the  combined  system  is  asymptotically  in  a  stationary 
state  for  the  atom  and  a  state  of  uniform  translational  motion  for  the 
electron.  (Note  that  this  is  connected  to  the  treatment  of  the  free  particle 
by  Born  and  Wiener.)  If  one  can  manage  to  describe  the  asymptotic 
behaviour  of  the  combined  system  mathematically,  this  will  give  concrete 
indications  as  to  the  transitions  between  the  initial  and  final  asymptotic 
states.  Born  managed  to  find  the  solution  specifically  by  wave  mechanical 
methods  @ 

Note  that  Born  considers  two  conceptually  distinct  objects,  the  wave 
function  on  the  one  hand  and  the  stationary  states  of  the  atom  and  the 
electron  on  the  other,  the  connection  between  them  being  that  the  wave 
function  defines  a  probability  distribution  over  the  stationary  states. 
(Note  also  that  he  reserves  the  word  'state'  only  for  the  stationary 
states.) 

Born  solves  by  perturbation  methods  the  time-independent  Schro- 
dinger  equation  for  the  combined  system  of  atom  and  electron  under 
the  condition  that  asymptotically  for  z  — ►  00,  the  solution  has  the  form 
ipn(q)e~z  (a  product  of  the  n-th  eigenstate  of  the  atom  with  a  plane 
wave  coming  from  the  z-direction) ,  with  energy  r.  Born's  solution  has 

a  For  a  modern  discussion  of  collisions,  cf.  sectionriO.il 

b  The  Ramsauer  effect,  however,  is  excluded  from  Born's  discussion  (1926b  [30], 
footnote  on  p.  824).  A  few  passages  might  be  seen  to  refer  to  Born's  exchange 
with  Bohr,  in  particular  the  remark  that,  at  the  price  of  dropping  causality,  the 
usual  spacetime  picture  can  be  maintained  (1926b  [30],  p.  826). 

c  Cf.  Born  to  Schrodinger,  16  May  1927:  'the  simple  possibility  of  treating  with  it 
aperiodic  processes  (collisions)  made  me  first  believe  that  your  conception  was 
superior'  (quoted  in  Mehra  and  Rechenberg  2000,  p.  135). 


108 


From  matrix  to  quantum  mechanics 


the  form: 


ax-\-f3y+~yz>0 


(21) 


where  the  energy  corresponding  to  the  wave  number  krnm  equals 


the  vnm  being  the  transition  frequencies  of  the  atom.  The  components  of 
the  superposition  can  thus  be  associated  with  various,  generally  inelastic, 
collisions  in  which  energy  is  conserved,  and  Born  interprets  |$^m(a,  (3,  j)\2 
as  the  probability  for  the  atom  to  be  in  the  stationary  state  m  and  the 
electron  to  be  scattered  in  the  direction  (a,/3,7)B 

But  now,  crucially,  since  the  initial  wave  function  corresponds  to  a 
fully  determined  stationary  state  and  inertial  motion,  this  probability  is 
also  the  probability  for  a  quantum  jump  from  the  given  initial  state  to 
the  given  final  state,  i.e.  a  transition  probability. 

This  idea  is  linked  to  that  of  a  guiding  field.  The  link  is  made  explicitly 
at  the  beginning  of  Bern's  second  paper  (which  includes  the  details  of  the 
derivation  and  some  quantitative  predictions).  While  Born  judges  that  in 
the  context  of  optics  one  ought  to  wait  until  the  development  of  a  proper 
quantum  electrodynamics,  in  the  context  of  the  quantum  mechanics  of 
material  particles  the  guiding  field  idea  can  be  applied  already,  using 
the  de  Broglie-Schrodinger  waves  as  guiding  fields.  The  trajectories  of 
material  particles,  however,  are  determined  by  the  guiding  field  merely 
probabilistically  (1926b  [30],  pp.  803-4).  In  his  conclusion,  Born  regards 
the  picture  of  the  guiding  field  as  fundamentally  indeterministic.  A 
deterministic  completion,  if  possible,  would  not  have  any  practical  use. 
Born  also  expresses  the  hope  that  the  'laws  of  motion  for  light  quanta' 
will  find  a  similar  treatment  to  the  one  given  for  electrons,  and  refers 
to  the  difficulties  'so  far'  of  pursuing  a  guiding  field  approach  in  optics 


a  A  statistical  interpretation  for  the  modulus  squared  of  the  coefficients  of  the  wave 
function  in  the  energy  basis  was  introduced  also  by  Dirac  (f926c  [37]),  at  the 
same  time  as  and  presumably  independently  of  Born  (cf.  Darrigol  1992,  p.  333). 
Note  further  that,  even  though  it  may  be  tempting  to  assume  that  each  trajectory 
proceeds  from  the  scattering  centre,  strictly  speaking  to  each  stationary  state  of 
the  free  particle  corresponds  a  whole  family  of  inertial  trajectories.  (Similarly,  in 
the  case  treated  by  Born  and  Wiener,  each  generalised  column  sum  associated  with 
a  stationary  state  corresponds  to  two  different  inertial  trajectories,  depending  on 
the  sign  of  the  square  root  in  J20j.) 

b  Born's  views  on  quantum  mechanics  from  this  period  are  also  presented  in  Born 
(1927),  an  expanded  version  (published  March  1927)  of  a  talk  given  by  Born  in 
August  1926. 


+  T 


(22) 


(pp.  826-7)@ 


3.4  Interpretation 


109 


3-4-4  Heisenberg  on  energy  fluctuations 

As  discussed  in  the  next  chapter,  Heisenberg  in  particular  among  matrix 
physicists  was  opposed  to  Schrodinger's  attempt  to  recast  and  reinter- 
pret quantum  theory  on  the  basis  of  continuous  wave  functions.  Schro- 
dinger's wave  functions  were  meant  from  the  start  as  descriptions  of 
individual  states  of  a  physical  system.  Even  though  in  general  they 
are  abstract  functions  (on  configuration  space),  they  can  provide  a  pic- 
ture of  Bohr's  stationary  states.  Furthermore,  the  solution  of  the  time- 
dependent  Schrodinger  equation  appears  to  provide  a  generalisation  of 
the  state  of  a  system  as  it  evolves  in  time. 

Heisenberg  appears  to  have  been  disturbed  initially  also  by  Born's 
use  of  Schrodinger's  theory  in  the  treatment  of  collisions,  an  attitude 
reflected  in  particular  in  his  correspondence  with  Pauli@  In  this  connec- 
tion, the  fact  that  Pauli  —  in  his  letter  of  19  October  (Pauli  1979, 
pp.  340-9)  —  was  in  effect  able  to  sketch  how  one  could  reinterpret 
Born's  results  in  terms  of  matrix  elements,  must  have  been  of  particular 
significance:  'Your  calculations  have  given  me  again  great  hope,  because 
they  show  that  Born's  somewhat  dogmatic  viewpoint  of  the  probability 
waves  is  only  one  of  many  possible  schemes' @ 

A  few  days  later,  Heisenberg  sent  Pauli  the  manuscript  of  his  paper  on 
fluctuation  phenomena  (Heisenberg  1926b  [35]),  in  which  he  developed 
considerations  similar  to  Pauli's  in  the  context  of  a  characteristic  exam- 
ple, that  of  two  atoms  in  resonance.  By  focussing  on  the  subsystems  of 
a  closed  system,  Heisenberg  was  able  to  derive  expressions  for  (transi- 
tion) probabilities  within  matrix  mechanics  proper,  without  having  to 
introduce  the  wave  function  as  an  external  aid.  A  very  similar  result  was 
derived  at  the  same  time  by  Jordan  (1927  [36]),  using  two  systems  with 
a  single  energy  difference  in  common. 

We  shall  now  sketch  Heisenberg's  reasoning.  We  adapt  the  presenta- 
tion of  the  argument  given  by  Heisenberg  in  The  Physical  Principles 
of  the  Quantum  Theory  (Heisenberg  1930b,  pp.  142-7)  |j  which  is  more 
general  than  the  one  given  in  the  paper  and  clearer  than  the  one  given 
in  Born  and  Heisenberg's  report. 

Take  two  systems,  1  and  2,  that  are  in  resonance.  Consider,  to  be- 
gin with,  that  the  frequency  of  the  transition  m  — >  mi  in  system  1 

a  'One  sentence  [of  Born's  paper]  reminded  me  vividly  of  a  chapter  in  the  Christian 
creed:  "An  electron  is  a  plane  wave..."  '  (Heisenberg  to  Pauli  28  July  1926,  in  Pauli 
1979,  p.  338,  original  emphasis). 

b  Heisenberg  to  Pauli,  28  October  1926,  in  Pauli  (1979,  p.  350). 

c  This  very  remarkable  book  is  an  expanded  English  edition  of  Heisenberg  (1930a). 


110 


From  matrix  to  quantum  mechanics 


corresponds  to  exactly  one  transition  frequency  in  system  2,  say 

i/(1)(nimi)  =  v{2)(n2m2)  .  (23) 

If  the  systems  are  uncoupled,  the  combined  system  has  the  degenerate 
eigenvalue  of  energy 

W$  +  W%\  =  WW  +  W$  .  (24) 

If  we  couple  weakly  the  two  systems,  the  degeneracy  will  be  lifted.  Let 
us  label  the  new  eigenstates  of  the  combined  system  by  a  and  b.  We 
can  now  consider  the  matrix  S  that  transforms  the  basis  of  eigenstates 
of  energy  of  the  coupled  system  to  the  (product)  basis  of  eigenstates 
of  energy  of  the  uncoupled  systems.  In  particular  we  can  consider  the 
submatrix 

(Snim2,a      Snim2.l)    \  (25) 

Choose  one  of  the  stationary  states  of  the  combined  system,  say  a. 
If  the  combined  system  is  in  the  state  a,  what  can  one  say  about  the 
energy  of  the  subsystems,  for  instance  H^1'?  Heisenberg's  answer,  in  the 
terminology  and  notation  of  his  book  (1930b),  is  that  in  the  state  a, 
the  time  average  of  (which  is  no  longer  a  diagonal  matrix,  thus  no 
longer  time- independent),  or  of  any  function  f(H^),  is 

JW^j  =  f(w£>)\Snim2,a\2  +  f(W%)\Smin2,a\2  .  (26) 

Since  /  is  arbitrary,  Heisenberg  concludes  that  \Snim2,a\2  is  the  proba- 
bility that  the  state  m  has  remained  the  same  (and  the  state  m2  has 
remained  the  same),  and  \Smin2,a\2  is  the  probability  that  the  state  m 
has  jumped  to  the  state  mi  (and  7712  has  jumped  to  n2). 

The  associated  transfer  of  energy  between  the  systems  appears  to  be 
instantaneous,  in  that  a  quantum  jump  in  one  system  (from  a  higher 
to  a  lower  energy  level)  is  accompanied  by  a  corresponding  jump  in  the 
other  system  (from  a  lower  to  a  higher  energy  level).  The  paper  merely 
mentions,  without  elaborating  further,  that  a  light  quantum  (or  better 
a  'sound  quantum')  is  exchanged  over  and  over  again  between  the  two 
systems.  The  picture  thus  avoids  the  non-conservation  of  energy  of  the 
BKS  theory,  at  the  price  of  what  appears  to  be  an  explicit  correlation 
at  a  distance. 

In  modern  terms,  Heisenberg  has  calculated  the  expectation  value  of 


3.4  Interpretation 


111 


the  observable  f(H^)  ®  1  in  the  state  a: 
(a\f(HM)  <g>  l|a)  = 


(27) 


Note,  however,  that  rather  than  focussing  on  the  idea  that 

\Snirn2,a\2  =  I  (nl  m2  |o)  |2 


(28) 


is  a  conditional  probability  (in  fact  what  we  would  today  call  a  transition 
probability) ,  Heisenberg  is  still  focussing  on  the  transitions  between  the 
stationary  states  of  the  subsystems,  as  in  Born's  work  on  collisions. 


Less  than  three  weeks  after  completing  his  draft  on  fluctuation  phenome- 
na, we  find  Heisenberg  reporting  to  Pauli  about  Dirac's  transformation 
theory,  which  generalises  precisely  the  formal  expression  of  a  conditional 
probability  given  by  Heisenberg  in  terms  of  the  transformation  matrix: 
'Here  [in  Copenhagen]  we  have  also  been  thinking  more  about  the  que- 
stion of  the  meaning  of  the  transformation  function  S  and  Dime  has 
achieved  an  extraordinarily  broad  generalisation  of  this  assumption  from 
my  note  on  fluctuations'  (Pauli  1979,  p.  357,  original  emphasis). 

Dirac  indeed  presents  his  results  in  his  paper,  significantly  titled  'The 
physical  interpretation  of  quantum  dynamics'  (1927a  [38]),  as  a  gene- 
ralisation of  Heisenberg's  approach.  The  main  goal  of  the  paper  is  the 
following^ 

Take  any  pair  of  conjugate  matrix  quantities  £  and  r],  and  any  'con- 
stant of  integration'  <7(£,  ?7)u  Given  a  value  of  £  as  a  c-number,  find 
the  fraction  of  77-space  for  which  g  lies  between  any  two  numerical 
values.  If  r\  is  assumed  to  be  distributed  uniformlyjj  this  result  will 
yield  the  frequency  of  the  given  values  of  g  in  an  ensemble  of  systems. 

a  In  our  presentation  we  shall  partly  follow  the  analysis  by  Darrigol  (1992,  pp.  337- 


b  This  term  is  meant  to  include  any  value  of  a  dynamical  quantity  at  a  specified 

time  t  =  to  (Dirac  1927  [38],  p.  623,  footnote), 
c  This  assumption  may  sound  strange,  especially  since  £  is  assumed  to  have  a  definite 

value  and  £  and  rj  are  canonically  conjugate.  Cf.  however  Dirac's  remarks  on 

interpretation  below. 


3-4-5  Transformation  theory 


45). 


112 


From  matrix  to  quantum  mechanics 


Equivalently,  we  can  state  Dirac's  goal  as  that  of  finding  the  expectation 
value  (or  more  precisely,  the  77-average)  of  any  fixed-time  observable  g, 
given  a  certain  value  of  £. 

The  main  part  of  the  paper  is  devoted  to  developing  a  'transformation 
theory'  that  will  allow  Dirac  to  write  the  quantity  g  not  in  the  usual 
energy  representation  but  in  an  arbitrary  ^-representation.  Dirac  then 
suggests  taking  the  77-averaged  value  of  g,  for  £  taking  the  c-number 
value  as  given  by  the  diagonal  element  g£>£>  of  g  in  this  represen- 
tation. This  is  in  fact  a  natural  if  'extremely  broad'  generalisation,  to 
an  arbitrary  pair  of  conjugate  quantities  (£,??),  of  the  assumption  that 
the  diagonal  elements  of  a  matrix  in  the  energy  representation  (such 
as  Heisenberg's  f(H^)  from  the  previous  section)  are  time  averages, 
although  the  justification  Dirac  gives  for  this  assumption  is  merely  that 
'the  diagonal  elements  ....  certainly  would  [determine  the  average  values] 
in  the  limiting  case  of  large  quantum  numbers'  (Dirac  1927  [38],  p.  637). 

Dirac  writes  the  elements  of  a  general  transformation  matrix  between 
two  complete  sets  of  variables  £  and  a  (whether  discrete  or  continuous) 
as  (£'  jet  )  (what  we  would  now  write  (£'|a')),  so  that  the  matrix  elements 
transform  as 


(Dirac's  notation  is  meant  to  include  the  possibility  of  discrete  sums). 

His  main  analytic  tool  is  the  manipulation  of  (5-functions  and  their 
derivatives.  Dirac  shows  in  particular  that  for  the  quantity  £  itself, 


(29) 


(30) 


(31) 


In  a  mixed  representation,  one  has 


(32) 


and 


(33) 


from  which  follows 


d 


(34) 


for  arbitrary  g  =  g(^,rj). 


3.4  Interpretation 


113 


Choosing  a  such  that  g  is  diagonal  in  the  a-representation,  one  has 

9e*=9ar[g/ct)  ,  (35) 

where  the  ga>  are  the  eigenvalues  of  g.  Therefore,  (|34|  becomes  a  diffe- 
rential equation  for  the  (£'/a')  (seen  as  functions  of  £'),  which  generalises 
the  time-independent  Schrodinger  equation^] 

Once  this  equation  is  solved,  one  could  obtain  the  desired  g^^  from 
the  g^'a'  by  the  appropriate  transformation.  The  way  Dirac  states  his 
final  result,  however,  is  by  considering  the  matrix  5(g—g').  The  numerical 
function  S(g  —  g'),  when  integrated, 

b 

5(9  -  g'W  ,  (36) 

yields  the  characteristic  function  of  the  set  a  <  g  <  b.  Therefore,  in 
Dirac's  proposed  interpretation,  the  diagonal  elements  of  the  correspon- 
ding matrix  in  the  ^-representation  yield,  for  each  value  £  =  the 
fraction  of  the  77-space  for  which  a  <  g  <  b.  That  is,  if  r\  is  assumed  to 
be  distributed  uniformly,  these  diagonal  elements  yield  the  conditional 
probability  for  a  <  g  <  b  given  £  =  Thus,  the  diagonal  elements 
of  the  matrix  S (g  —  g')  yield  the  corresponding  conditional  probability 
density  for  g  given  £  =  But  now,  e.g.  since  for  any  function  f(g)  one 
has 

Mee»  =  / {t,'/9")f(9"){9"ie)dg"  ,  (37) 

one  has  in  particular 

s(g  tf)ee  =  f  (WW  -  g'W /Z'W  =  (W)CsVO  •  (38) 

Therefore,  the  conditional  probability  density  for  g  given  £  =  £'  is  equal 
to  |  (<?'/£') I  i  a  result  that  Dirac  illustrates  by  discussing  Heisenberg's 
example  of  transition  probabilities  in  resonant  atoms  and  Born's  collision 
problem. 

In  parallel  with  Dirac's  development  of  transformation  theory,  Jordan 
(1927b, c  [39])  also  arrived  at  a  similar  theory,  following  on  directly  from 
his  paper  on  quantum  jumps  (1927a  [36])  and  from  his  earlier  work 
on  canonical  transformations  (1926a, b),  to  which  Dirac  also  makes  an 
explicit  connection.  Although  Born  and  Heisenberg  state  in  the  report 
(p.!429p  that  the  two  methods  are  equivalent,  Darrigol  (1992,  pp.  343-4) 


a  Dirac  also  gives  a  generalisation  of  the  time-dependent  Schrodinger  equation. 


114 


From  matrix  to  quantum  mechanics 


points  to  some  subtle  differences,  which  are  also  related  to  Dirac's  criti- 
cism in  the  general  discussion  of  Jordan's  introduction  of  anticommuting 
fields  (p.  I50ip.  Dirac  also  notes  that  his  theory  generalises  the  work  by 
Lanczos  (1926  [23]).  The  development  of  transformation  theory  from 
the  idea  of  canonical  transformations  led  further  towards  the  realisation 
that  quantum  mechanical  operators  act on  a  Hilbert  space  and  that  the 
natural  transformations  are  in  fact  unitaryjfj 


Dirac  concludes  his  paper  with  an  intriguing  suggestion  of 

....  a  point  of  view  for  regarding  quantum  phenomena  rather  different  from 
the  usual  ones.  One  can  suppose  that  the  initial  state  of  a  system  determines 
definitely  the  state  of  the  system  at  any  subsequent  time.  If,  however,  one 
describes  the  state  of  the  system  at  an  arbitrary  time  by  giving  numerical 
values  to  the  co-ordinates  and  momenta,  then  one  cannot  actually  set  up  a 
one-one  correspondence  between  the  values  of  these  co-ordinates  and  momenta 
initially  and  their  values  at  a  subsequent  time.  All  the  same  one  can  obtain 
a  good  deal  of  information  (of  the  nature  of  averages)  about  the  values  at 
the  subsequent  time  considered  as  functions  of  the  initial  values.  The  notion 
of  probabilities  does  not  enter  into  the  ultimate  description  of  mechanical 
processes:  only  when  one  is  given  some  information  that  involves  a  probability 
(e.g.,  that  all  points  in  77-space  are  equally  probable  for  representing  the 
system)  can  one  deduce  results  that  involve  probabilities.  (Dirac  1927a  [38], 


Here  Dirac  does  not  impute  indeterminism  to  nature  itself  (the  matrix 
equations  are  after  all  deterministic),  but  instead  apparently  identifies 
the  source  of  the  statistical  element  in  the  choice  of  probabilistic  initial 
data@ 

According  to  Heisenberg,  however,  and  despite  the  generality  of  the 
results  and  the  'extraordinary  progress'  obtained  (Pauli  1979,  p.  358), 
Dirac's  transformation  theory  did  not  resolve  the  question  of  the  mea- 
ning of  quantum  mechanics.  As  Darrigol  (1992,  p.  344)  emphasises,  there 
is  no  notion  of  state  vector  in  Dirac's  paper  (the  well-known  bras  and  kets 
do  not  appear  yet).  C-number  values,  and  probability  distributions  over 

a  See  Lacki  (2004),  who  gives  details  also  of  London's  (1926a, b)  contributions  to 
this  development.  Note  also  the  connection  between  transformation  theory  and 
the  work  on  the  'equivalence'  between  matrix  mechanics  and  wave  mechanics. 

a  This  should  be  compared  to  the  general  discussion,  in  which  Dirac  (a)  talks 
of  'an  irrevocable  choice  of  nature'  (p.  I494|l  in  relation  to  the  outcomes  of  an 
experiment,  (b)  uses  explicitly  (perhaps  for  the  first  time)  the  notion  of  the  state 
vector,  when  he  affirms  that  '[ajccording  to  quantum  mechanics  the  state  of  the 
world  at  any  time  is  describable  by  a  wave  function  ifi,  which  normally  varies 
according  to  a  causal  law,  so  that  its  initial  value  determines  its  value  at  any  later 
time'  (v.  14930.  and  in  which  (c)  he  describes  the  initial  data  taken  for  quantum 
mechanical  calculations  as  describing  'acts  of  freewill',  namely  'the  disturbances 
that  an  experimenter  applies  to  a  system  to  observe  it'  (p.14931:  see  also  sectionROl 


p.  641) 


3.4  Interpretation 


115 


c-number  values,  now  refer  to  arbitrary  quantities  or  pairs  of  quantities. 
As  Heisenberg  wrote:  'there  are  too  many  c-numbers  in  all  our  utterances 
used  to  describe  a  fact'  (Pauli  1979,  p.  359).  Crucially,  however,  the 
energy  variable  and  the  stationary  states  no  longer  played  a  privileged 
role. 


3.4-6  Development  of  the  'statistical  view'  in  the  report 

In  the  report,  Born  and  Heisenberg  appear  to  understand  Born's  collision 
papers  (1926a, b  [30])  on  the  one  hand  and  the  papers  by  Heisenberg 
(1926b  [35])  and  Jordan  (1927a  [36])  on  the  other  broadly  in  the  same 
way,  as  seeking  to  obtain  'information  ....  about  actual  phenomena',  by 
'directing]  one's  attention  to  a,  part  of  the  system'  (p.!419lof  the  report). 
And  indeed,  by  considering  coupled  systems  all  of  these  papers  manage 
to  derive  quantitative  expressions  for  the  probabilities  of  quantum  jumps 
between  energy  eigenstates. 

Heisenberg's  setting  is  the  one  chosen  in  the  report,  and  since  Hei- 
senberg's  treatment  of  interacting  systems  does  not  use  the  formalism 
of  wave  mechanics,  this  choice  may  be  intended  to  make  the  point  that 
matrix  mechanics  can  indeed  account  for  time-dependent  phenomena 
without  the  aid  of  wave  mechanics. 

The  form  of  Heisenberg's  result  (|26|  as  given  in  the  report  is  in  terms 
of  the  expected  deviation  of  the  value  of  energy  from  a  given  initial  value, 
for  instance  ni@ 

{f(wW)-f(Wg>)}\Snim2,a\2+  (39) 

{f(W%)-f{wg>)}\smina,a\2 . 

If  we  write  f„im,  for  the  probability  of  the  transition  n\  —*  mi  in 
system  1,  this  becomes  equation  ff20|)  of  the  report,  except  that  Born 
and  Heisenberg  label  the  matrix  elements  5„ira2j(1  and  Smiri2la,  respec- 
tively, by  the  transitions  n\m,2  — >  fii«i2  and  n\im,2  — >  mini,  that  is, 
as  Snim2^nirri2  and  Snim2tmin2,  omitting  reference  to  the  state  a  @One 
further  difference  between  our  description  above  and  the  one  given  in 
the  report  is  that  Born  and  Heisenberg  are  treating  the  case  in  which 
the  transition  n\  — ►  mi  in  system  1  may  resonate  with  more  than  one 

a  Note  that  \Snim2,a\2  +  \Smin2,a\2  =  1,  because  a  is  normalised, 
b  In  Heisenberg's  paper,  the  matrix  l|25|l  corresponds  to  a  45-degree  rotation,  so  the 
probabilities  are  independent  of  the  choice  of  a  or  b. 


116 


From  matrix  to  quantum  mechanics 


transition  in  system  2.  In  this  case,  the  total  transition  probability  $n,mi 
is  no  longer  equal  to  \Snim2.min2 12  but  to 

m,2ri2 

Thus  we  also  have  equation  ([2T)l  of  the  report. 

It  is  only  after  this  matrix  mechanical  discussion  that  Born  and  Hei- 
senberg  introduce  the  time-dependent  Schrodinger  equation,  as  a  more 
'convenient'  formalism  for  'thinking  of  the  system  under  consideration 
as  coupled  to  another  one  and  neglecting  the  reaction  on  the  latter' 
(p.!42ip.  This  suggests  that  Born  and  Heisenberg  may  consider  the  time- 
dependent  Schrodinger  equation  only  as  an  effective  description.  This 
impression  is  reinforced  by  comparing  with  Heisenberg's  book  (1930b, 
pp.  148-50)  where,  after  the  above  derivation,  Heisenberg  continues  with 
a  more  general  derivation  of  time-dependent  probabilities,  which  he  then 
relates  to  the  usual  time-dependent  Schrodinger  equation.  Nevertheless, 
Born  and  Heisenberg  use  the  wave  function  throughout  the  ensuing 
discussion  of  probabilities,  noting  that  this  formalism  'leads  to  a  further 
development  of  the  statistical  view',  by  which  they  mean  in  particular 
the  idea  of  interference  of  probabilities  |fj 

First  of  all  Born  and  Heisenberg  relate  the  wave  function  to  probabi- 
lities. They  take  the  time-dependent  transformation  matrix  S(t)  given 
by  the  unitary  evolution.  For  the  coefficients  of  the  wave  function  in  the 
energy  basis  one  has  (equation  l(25|)  in  the  report): 

Cn{t)  =X^™™(*)C™(°)  ■  (41) 

m 

If  now  all  cm(0)  except  one  (say,  Cfc(0))  are  zero,  from  the  assumption 
that  a  system  is  always  in  a  stationary  state  it  is  natural  to  conclude 
that  the  \Snk(t)\2  are  the  probabilities  for  transitions  to  the  respective 
energy  states  ('transition  probabilties'),  and  the  |c„(i)|2  are  the  resulting 
probabilities  for  the  stationary  states  ('state  probabilities').  In  support 
of  this  interpretation  (which  is  the  same  as  in  Born's  collision  papers), 
the  report  quotes  in  particular  Born's  paper  on  the  adiabatic  principle 
(1926c  [34]),  that  is,  Born's  proof  that  in  the  adiabatic  case  the  transition 
probabilities  between  different  states  tend  to  zero,  in  accordance  with 
Ehrenfest's  (1917)  principle^ 

a  On  these  matters  cf.  also  section  18.11 

b  Ehrenfest  had  the  idea  that  since  quantised  variables  cannot  change  by  arbitrarily 
small  amounts,  they  should  remain  constant  under  adiabatic  perturbations.  This 


3.4  Interpretation 


117 


Then  Born  and  Heisenberg  come  to  discussing  interference^  This  is 
also  the  first  time  in  the  presentation  of  the  physical  interpretation  of 
the  theory  that  measurements  enter  the  picture.  Born  and  Heisenberg 
note  that  if  Ck  is  not  the  only  non-zero  coefficient  at  t  =  0,  then  l!41tl 
does  not  imply 

\Cn{t)\2  =Y,\S™{t)\2\cmm2  ,  (42) 

m 

but  that  instead  one  has 

\Cn(t)\2  =  \^2Snm(t)cm(0)\2  .  (43) 

m 

The  passage  immediately  following  this  is  both  remarkable  and,  in  our 
opinion,  very  significant  (p.  1423ft H 

it  should  be  noted  that  this  'interference'  does  not  represent  a  contradiction 
with  the  rules  of  the  probability  calculus,  that  is,  with  the  assumption  that 
the  \S„k\2  are  quite  usual  probabilities.  In  fact,  the  composition  rule  [lfi"2jl] 
follows  from  the  concept  of  probability  for  the  problem  treated  here  when  and 
only  when  the  relative  number,  that  is,  the  probability  |c„j2  of  the  atoms  in 
the  state  n,  has  been  established  beforehand  experimentally.  In  this  case  the 
phases  7n  are  unknown  in  principle,  so  that  [l|43p]  then  naturally  goes  over  to 

I  Gil  

(The  passage  ends  with  a  reference  to  Heisenberg's  uncertainty  paper.) 
How  do  Born  and  Heisenberg  propose  to  resolve  this  apparent  contra- 
diction? 

It  would  make  sense  to  say  that  the  \Snk(t)\2  cannot  be  taken  in 
general  as  probabilities  for  quantum  jumps,  because  the  derivation  of 
\Snk(t)\2  as  a  transition  probability  works  only  in  a  special  case  (that  is, 
presumably,  if  the  energy  at  t  =  0  has  in  fact  been  measured) .  On  this 
reading,  there  might  conceivably  exist  some  quite  different  transition 
probabilities,  which  lie  outside  the  scope  of  quantum  mechanics  and  are 

led  him  to  formulate  the  principle  stating  that  the  classical  variables  to  be 
quantised  are  the  adiabatic  invariants  of  the  system.  Cf.  Born  (1969,  pp.  113  ff.). 

a  Born  and  Heisenberg  give  credit  to  Pauli  for  the  notion  of  interference  of 
probabilities  fp.l423|l.  Note  that  Pauli  contributed  significantly  to  the  development 
of  the  'statistical  view',  albeit  mainly  in  correspondence  and  discussion.  Contrary 
to  what  is  commonly  assumed,  the  idea  of  a  probability  density  for  position  is 
not  contained  in  Born's  collision  papers,  but  appears  in  fact  in  Pauli's  letter  to 
Heisenberg  of  19  October  1926  (Pauli  1979,  p.  340-9),  together  with  the  idea  of 
the  corresponding  momentum  density,  and  in  print  in  a  footnote  of  Pauli's  paper 
on  gas  degeneracy  and  paramagnetism  (1927  [44]).  (See  also  Heisenberg  to  Pauli, 
28  October  1926,  in  Pauli  1979,  pp.  340-52.)  Jordan  (1927b  [39]),  in  his  second 
paper  on  the  transformation  theory,  even  gives  credit  to  Pauli  for  the  introduction 
of  arbitrary  transition  probabilities  and  amplitudes. 

a  For  further  discussion,  see  sectionl6.1.2l 


118 


From  matrix  to  quantum  mechanics 


presumbly  of  no  practical  value  (like  a  deterministic  completion  in  the 
case  of  collision  processes)  Q 

However,  this  reading  does  not  seem  to  fit  what  Born  and  Heisen- 
berg  actually  say.  Their  suggestion  seems  to  be  that  the  \Snk(t)\2  are 
indeed  always  transition  probabilities,  but  that  the  |c„|2  are  not  always 
state  probabilities:  the  |c„|2  will  be  state  probabilities  if  and  only  if  the 
energies  have  been  measured  (non-selectively) .  This  seems  analogous  to 
Heisenberg's  (1927  [46],  p.  197)  idea  in  the  uncertainty  paper  that  the 
'law  of  causality'  is  inapplicable  because  it  is  impossible  in  principle  to 
know  the  present  with  sufficient  accuracy  (i.e.  the  antecedent  of  the  law 
of  causality  fails)  0 


Born  and  Heisenberg  swiftly  move  on  to  generalising  the  discussion  to 
the  case  of  arbitrary  observables,  on  the  basis  of  Dirac's  and  Jordan's 
transformation  theory  (Dirac  1927a  [38],  Jordan  1927b,c  [39]).  They 
introduce  the  interpretation  of  \ip\2  as  a  position  density,  and  consider 
in  particular  the  density  \>p(q',  W)\2  defined  by  the  stationary  state 
<p(q',W)  with  the  energy  W,  or  in  modern  notation, 


This  is  immediately  generalised  to  arbitrary  pairs  of  observables  q  and 
Q  with  values  q'  and  Q': 


Born  and  Heisenberg  call  this  a  'relative  state  probability',  reserving  the 
term  'transition  probability'  for  the  case  of  a  single  observable  evolving 
in  time  (or  depending  on  some  external  parameter) ,  always  with  the  pro- 
viso that  in  general  one  should  expect  interference  of  the  corresponding 
'transition  amplitudes'. 

Note  that  the  physical  interpretation  of  this  generalisation  makes  sense 
only  if  one  takes  over  from  the  above  the  idea  that  probabilities  such  as 
\ip\2  are  well-defined  only  upon  measurement,  or  more  precisely,  that  ac- 

a  That  such  probabilities  can  be  defined  (albeit  non-uniquely),  leading  to 
well-defined  stochastic  processes  for  the  quantum  jumps,  was  shown  explicitly 
by  Bell  (1984). 

a  It  appears  not  to  be  well  known  that  the  last  20  pages  of  the  original  typescript 
of  Heisenberg's  uncertainty  paper  are  contained  in  AHQP,  miscatalogued  as 
an  'incomplete  and  unpublished  paper  (pp.  12-31)'  by  Kramers. 7The  typescript 
contains  slight  textual  variants  (as  compared  with  the  published  version)  and 
manuscript  corrections  in  what  appears  to  be  Heisenberg's  hand,  but  does  not 
include  the  famous  addendum  in  proof  in  response  to  Bohr's  criticism  (cf.  p.  11461 
below).  On  Heisenberg's  treatment  of  the  'law  of  causality',  see  also  Beller  (1999, 
pp.  110-13). 


W,W')\2  =  Ww'{q')\2  =  \{l'\W')?  . 


(44) 


W,Q')\2  =  \(q'\Q')\2  . 


(45) 


3.4  Interpretation 


119 


tual  frequencies  upon  measurement  will  be  given  by  the  expression  |y|2. 
Born  and  Heisenberg's  terminology,  however,  is  somewhat  ambiguous@ 

A  major  conceptual  shift  appears  to  be  taking  place,  which  may 
be  easy  to  miss.  Do  quantum  jumps  still  occur  whenever  two  systems 
interact,  or  do  they  now  occur  only  between  measurements?  Indeed,  are 
systems  always  in  stationary  states,  as  has  been  explicitly  assumed  until 
now,  or  only  when  the  energy  is  measured?  Heisenberg's  uncertainty 
paper  (on  pp.  190-1),  as  well  as  the  correspondence  with  Pauli  (Hei- 
senberg  to  Pauli,  23  February  1927,  in  Pauli  1979,  pp.  376-82)  both 
mention  explicitly  the  loss  of  a  privileged  status  for  stationary  states. 
It  seems  that,  even  though  we  are  not  explicitly  told  so,  the  picture  of 
quantum  jumps  (that  is,  of  probabilistic  transitions  between  possessed 
values  of  energy)  is  shifting  to  that  of  probabilistic  transitions  from  one 
measurement  to  the  next. 

The  idea  that  frequencies  are  well-defined  only  upon  measurement 
appears  to  play  the  same  role  as  von  Neumann's  projection  postulate. 
As  discussed  in  more  detail  in  chapter  [6],  however,  it  is  far  from  clear 
whether  that  is  what  Born  and  Heisenberg  have  in  mind.  A  similar  notion 
is  introduced  in  Heisenberg's  uncertainty  paper  (1927  [46],  p.  186),  but 
again  in  terms  that  are  'somewhat  mystical'  (Pauli  to  Bohr,  17  October 
1927,  in  Pauli  1979,  p.  411).  It  appears  explicitly  in  the  proceedings 
only  in  the  general  discussion,  in  Born's  main  contribution  (p.  1482ft  and 
in  the  intriguing  exchange  between  Dirac  and  Heisenberg  (pp.  [492]  ff.). 
In  chapter  [6]  and  section  18. 1\  we  shall  return  to  Born  and  Heisenberg's 
view  of  interference  and  to  the  question  of  whether,  according  to  them, 
the  collapse  of  the  wave  function  and  the  time-dependent  Schrodinger 
evolution  are  at  all  fundamental  processes. 


3.4-7  Justification  and  overall  conclusions 

The  following  section  III  (drafted  by  Heisenberg)  presents  Jordan's  axio- 
matic formulation  of  quantum  mechanics  (Jordan  1927b, c  [39]) @  and 
justifies  the  necessity  of  a  statistical  view  in  the  context  of  Heisenberg's 
notion  of  uncertainty  (Heisenberg  1927  [46]).  Born  and  Heisenberg  argue 
as  follows.  Even  in  classical  mechanics,  if  certain  quantities  (for  instance 

a  In  one  paragraph  they  refer  to  'the  probability  that  for  given  energy  W  the 
coordinate  q'  is  in  some  given  element  dq'\  whereas  in  the  next  they  refer  to  'the 
probability,  given  q' ,  to  find  the  value  of  Q'  in  dQ"  fp.  14261  italics  added). 

a  This  formulation,  which  is  how  Jordan  presents  his  transformation  theory,  was 
explicitly  intended  as  a  generalisation  of  the  formalisms  of  matrix  mechanics,  wave 
mechanics,  q-number  theory  and  of  Born  and  Wiener's  original  operator  formalism. 


120 


From  matrix  to  quantum  mechanics 


the  phases  of  the  motion)  were  known  only  with  a  certain  imprecision, 
the  future  evolution  of  the  system  would  be  only  statistically  cons- 
trained. Now,  the  uncertainty  relations  prevent  one  from  determining 
the  values  of  all  physical  quantities,  providing  a  fundamental  limit  of 
precision.  In  addition,  quantum  mechanics  prescibes  different  laws  for 
the  time  evolution  of  the  statistical  constraints.  Imprecise  initial  condi- 
tions can  be  described  by  choosing  certain  'probability  functions'  (this 
is  the  closest  Born  and  Heisenberg  come  to  discussing  the  'reduction 
of  the  wave  packet'  as  presented  in  the  uncertainty  paper),  and  'the 
quantum  mechanical  laws  determine  the  change  (wave-like  propagation) 
of  these  probability  functions'  (p.  I431j).  Born  and  Heisenberg  claim 
that  discussion  of  the  cases  in  which  these  laws  coincide  to  a  very 
good  approximation  with  the  classical  evolution  of  a  probability  density 
justifies  the  classical  treatment  of  a-  and  /?-particle  trajectories  in  a 
cloud  chamberQ  They  thus  maintain  that  the  statistical  element  in  the 
theory  can  be  reconciled  with  macroscopic  determinism0 

Section  III  arguably  addresses  the  dual  task  set  in  the  introduction  of 
ensuring  that  quantum  mechanics  is  'consistent  in  itself  and  of  showing 
that  quantum  mechanics  can  be  taken  to  'predict  unambiguously  the 
results  for  all  experiments  conceivable  in  its  domain'  (p.  I408[) .  This  task 
appears  to  be  related  to  two  conceptual  desiderata,  that  the  theory  be 
intuitive  (anschaulich)  and  closed  (abgeschlossen).  These  are  touched 
upon  briefly  in  the  report,  especially  in  the  introduction  and  conclusion, 
but  are  important  both  in  the  debate  with  Schrodinger  (see  section  |4~6| 
and  in  some  of  Heisenberg's  later  writings  (in  particular,  Heisenberg 
1948).  The  report  appears  to  be the  first  instance  in  which  Heisenberg 
uses  the  concept  of  a  closed  theoryQ 


As  defined  in  the  report,  a  closed  theory  is  one  that  has  achieved 

a  Born  and  Heisenberg's  remarks  about  different  laws  of  propagation  of  the 
probabilities  may  refer  to  the  conditions  under  which  l|43|l  reduces  to  |(42j,  which 
would  arguably  be  an  early  example  of  decoherence  considerations.  However,  the 
remark  is  too  brief,  and  Born  and  Heisenberg  may  be  merely  comparing  the 
spreading  of  the  quantum  probabilities  with  that  of  a  Liouville  distribution.  For  a 
modern  treatment  of  the  latter  comparison,  see  Ballentine  (2003). 
b  For  further  discussion  of  these  issues  see  sections  16.2.11  and  16. 41 
a  Compare  also  Scheibe  (1993)  on  the  concept  of  closed  theories  in  Heisenberg's 
thought.  The  origin  of  this  concept  has  also  been  traced  to  two  earlier  papers 
(Heisenberg  1926a  [28]  and  1926c  [60]);  see  for  instance  Chevalley  (1988).  However, 
in  the  first  paper  there  is  no  mention  of  closed  theories,  only  of  closed  systems  of 
terms  (symmetric  and  antisymmetric),  a  point  also  repeated  in  the  second  paper. 
In  the  latter,  Heisenberg  mentions  the  need  to  introduce  equations  for  the  matrix 
variables  in  order  to  obtain  a  'closed  theory',  but  this  does  not  seem  to  be  the 
same  use  of  the  term  as  in  the  report.  We  wish  to  thank  also  Gregor  Schiemann 
for  correspondence  and  references  on  this  topic. 


3.4  Interpretation 


121 


a  definitive  form,  and  is  no  longer  liable  to  modification,  either  in  its 
mathematical  formulation  or  in  its  physical  meaning.  This  is  made  more 
precise  in  later  presentations  (e.g.  Heisenberg  1948),  in  which  Heisenberg 
includes  the  applicability  of  the  concepts  of  a  theory  in  the  analysis.  All 
closed  theories  possess  a  specific  domain  of  application,  within  which 
they  are  and  will  always  remain  correct.  Indeed,  their  concepts  always 
remain  part  of  the  scientific  language  and  are  constitutive  of  our  physical 
understanding  of  the  world.  In  the  report,  quantum  mechanics  (without 
the  inclusion  of  electrodynamics)  is  indeed  taken  to  be  a  closed  theory^ 
so  that  different  assumptions  about  the  physical  meaning  of  quantum 
mechanics  (such  as  Schrodinger's  idea  of  taking  \<p\2  to  be  a  charge 
densitjIH),  would  lead  to  contradictions  with  experience.  Thus,  the  report 
ends  on  a  note  of  utmost  confidence. 


a  Heisenberg  (1948)  lists  Newtonian  mechanics,  Maxwellian  electrodynamics 
and  special-relativistic  physics,  thermodynamics,  and  nonrelativistic  quantum 
mechanics  as  the  four  main  examples  of  such  theories. 

b  Described  in  more  detail  in  section  fOI 


122 


Notes  to  pp.  93-118 


Archival  notes 

1  Cf.  also  Lorentz  to  Ehrenfest,  4  July  1927,  AHQP-EHR-23  (in  Dutch). 

2  This  and  the  following  remarks  are  based  on  Born  to  Lorentz,  23  June 
1927,  AHQP-LTZ-11  (in  German). 

3  Heisenberg  to  Lorentz,  23  June  1927,  AHQP-LTZ-12  (in  German). 

4  Born  to  Lorentz,  29  August  1927,  AHQP-LTZ-11  (in  German). 

5  Heisenberg  to  Lorentz,  24  August  1927,  AHQP-LTZ-12  (in  German). 

6  Heisenberg  to  Einstein,  18  February  1926,  AEA  12-172.00  (in  German). 

7  AHQP-28  (H.  A.  Kramers,  notes  and  drafts  1926-52),  section  6. 


4 

Schrodinger's  wave  mechanics 


Schrodinger's  work  on  wave  mechanics  in  1926  appears  to  have  be- 
en driven  by  the  idea  that  one  could  give  a  purely  wave-theoretical 
description  of  matter.  Key  elements  in  this  picture  were  the  idea  of 
particles  as  wave  packets  (section  14. 3p  and  the  possible  implications  for 
the  problem  of  radiation  (sectionl4~4|).  This  pure  wave  theory,  in  contrast 
to  de  Broglie's  work,  did  away  with  the  idea  of  point  particles  altogether 
(section |4~5)) .  The  main  conflict,  however,  was  between  Schrodinger  and 
the  proponents  of  quantum  mechanics  (section  I4.6[) ,  both  in  its  form 
at  the  time  of  Schrodinger's  papers  and  in  its  further  developments  as 
sketched  in  the  previous  chapter. 

For  reference,  we  provide  a  brief  chronology  of  Schrodinger's  writings 
relating  to  wave  mechanics  up  to  the  Solvay  conference: 

•  Paper  on  Einstein's  gas  theory,  submitted  15  December  1925,  publis- 
hed 1  March  1926  (Schrodinger  1926a). 

•  First  paper  on  quantisation,  submitted  27  January  1926,  addendum 
in  proof  28  February  1926,  published  13  March  1926  (Schrodinger 
1926b). 

•  Second  paper  on  quantisation,  submitted  23  February  1926,  published 
6  April  1926  (Schrodinger  1926c). 

•  Paper  on  the  relation  between  wave  and  matrix  mechanics  ('equi- 
valence paper'),  submitted  18  March  1926,  published  4  May  1926 
(Schrodinger  1926d). 

•  Paper  on  micro-  and  macromechanics  (coherent  states  for  the  harmo- 
nic oscillator),  published  9  July  1926  (Schrodinger  1926e). 

•  Third  paper  on  quantisation,  submitted  10  May  1926,  published  13 
July  1926  (Schrodinger  1926f). 


123 


124 


Schrddinger's  wave  mechanics 


•  Fourth  paper  on  quantisation,  submitted  21  June  1926,  published  5 
September  1926  (Schrodinger  1926g). 

•  Review  paper  in  English  for  the  Physical  Review,  submitted  3  Sep- 
tember 1926,  published  December  1926  (Schrodinger  1926h). 

•  Preface  to  the  first  edition  of  Abhandlungen  zur  Wellenmechanik,  da- 
ted November  1926  (Schrodinger  1926i). 

•  Paper  on  the  Compton  effect  in  wave  mechanics,  submitted  30  No- 
vember 1926,  published  10  January  1927  (Schrodinger  1927a). 

•  Paper  on  the  energy-momentum  tensor,  submitted  10  December  1926, 
published  10  January  1927  (Schrodinger  1927b). 

•  Paper  on  energy  exchange  in  wave  mechanics,  submitted  10  June  1927, 
published  9  August  1927  (Schrodinger  1927c). 

We  shall  now  discuss  the  above  points  in  turn,  after  a  brief  discussion 
of  the  planning  of  Schrodinger's  report  for  the  conference  (section  14. ip 
and  a  summary  of  the  report  itself  (section  I4.2[) . 


4.1  Planning  of  Schrodinger's  report 

As  reported  in  chapter  [H  the  scientific  committee  of  the  Solvay  institute 
met  in  Brussels  on  1  and  2  April  1926  to  plan  the  fifth  Solvay  conference. 
Lorentz  had  asked  Ehrenfest  to  suggest  some  further  names  of  possible 
participants,  and  it  is  in  Ehrenfest's  letter  of  30  March1  that  Schro- 
dinger's name  is  first  mentioned  in  connection  with  the  conference  @On 
this  occasion,  Ehrenfest  suggested  Schrodinger  on  the  basis  of  a  paper  in 
which  Schrodinger  proposed  an  expression  for  the  broadening  of  spectral 
lines  due  to  the  Doppler  effect,  and  which  applied  the  conservation 
laws  to  phenomena  involving  single  light  quanta  (Schrodinger  1922)@ 
Evidently,  neither  Lorentz  nor  Ehrenfest  were  yet  aware  of  Schrodinger's 
work  on  wave  mechanics. 

In  the  meantime,  Schrodinger  sent  to  Lorentz  the  proof  sheets  of 
his  first  two  papers  on  quantisation,  also  on  30  March,2  thus  initia- 
ting his  well-known  correspondence  with  Lorentz  on  wave  mechanics@ 

a  Schrodinger  had  already  been  a  participant  in  the  fourth  Solvay  conference,  though 
not  a  speaker;  cf.  Moore  (1989,  pp.  157-8). 

b  As  Schrodinger  points  out,  the  calculated  broadening  of  the  spectral  lines  is  small 
compared  to  that  expected  on  the  basis  of  the  thermal  agitation  of  the  radiating 
gas,  otherwise  the  effect  could  be  used  as  a  test  of  the  light  quantum  hypothesis. 

c  Most  of  this  correspondence  is  translated  in  Przibram  (1967).  In  the  letter  of 
30  March,  not  included  there,  Schrodinger  suggests  reading  the  second  paper  on 
quantisation  before  the  first,  which  should  be  seen  rather  an  as  example  of  an 
application.  Also,  he  writes  that  the  variational  principle  of  the  first  paper  is  given 


4-1  Planning  of  Schrodinger's  report 


125 


Accordingly,  already  in  a  report  of  8  April  1926  to  the  administrative 
commission,3  Schrodinger  is  listed  as  a  possible  substitute  for  Heisen- 
berg  for  a  lecture  on  the  'adaptation  of  the  foundations  of  dynamics  to 
the  quantum  theory'.  (It  is  unlikely,  however,  that  the  papers  reached 
Lorentz  before  the  meeting  in  Brussels!!)  In  January  1927  then,  as  most 
of  the  other  participants,  Schrodinger  was  invited  to  the  fifth  Solvay 
conference.5 

A  few  weeks  later,  Schrodinger  had  the  opportunity  to  discuss  perso- 
nally with  Lorentz  the  plans  for  the  report  'under  the  beautiful  palms  of 
Pasadena',  as  he  recalls  in  a  letter  of  June  1927.  In  the  same  letter,  we 
find  a  useful  sketch  of  the  theme  and  focus  of  Schrodinger's  report;  we  al- 
so gather  that  Schrodinger  was  wary  of  the  potential  for  a  confrontation 
in  Brussels:6 

....  I  nurtured  the  quiet  hope  you  would  yet  return  to  your  first  plan  and  entrust 
only  Messrs  [d]e  Broglie  and  Heisenberg  with  reports  on  the  new  mechanics. 
But  now  you  have  decided  otherwise  and  I  will  of  course  happily  perform  my 
duty. 

Yet  I  fear  that  the  'matricians'  (as  Mr  Ehrenfest  used  to  say)  will  feel 
disadvantaged.  Should  it  come  to  different  views,  which  might  after  all  urge  on 
the  committee  the  wish  to  limit  the  reports  to  two,  you  know,  dear  Professor, 
that  I  shall  always  happily  remit  my  charge  into  your  hands. 

According  to  Schrodinger's  sketch,  the  report  is  to  stress  points  of  prin- 
ciple, rather  than  the  (by  then  many)  applications  of  the  theory.  First  of 
all,  one  has  to  distinguish  clearly  between  two  wave-mechanical  theories: 
a  theory  of  waves  in  space  and  time  (which  however  runs  into  difficulties 
especially  with  the  many-electron  problem),  and  the  highly  successful 
theory  of  waves  in  configuration  space  (which  however  is  not  relativistic) . 
A  difficulty  of  principle  to  be  discussed  in  the  context  of  the  spaceti- 
me  theory  is  the  possibility  of  developing  an  interacting  theory,  which 
seems  to  require  distinguishing  between  the  fields  generated  by  different 
particles,  and  whether  this  can  be  done  in  a  sensible  way,  or  perhaps 
be  avoidedQ  In  the  context  of  the  configuration-space  theory,  the  main 
question  is  how  to  interpret  the  wave  function.  Schrodinger  mentions 

a  sensible  formulation  only  in  the  addendum  in  proof.  Finally,  he  mentions  the 
paper  on  Einstein's  gas  theory  in  the  Physikalische  Zeitschrift  (1926a)  as  a  kind 
of  preparatory  work.  Note  that  Lorentz  on  27  May  thanks  Schrodinger  for  the  proof 
sheets  of  three  papers  rather  than  the  two  mentioned  in  Schrodinger's  letter.  This 
third  paper  is  clearly  the  equivalence  paper  (1926d),  and  was  presumably  sent 
separately  (cf.  Przibram  1967,  pp.  43  and  55-6). 

a  Lorentz  had  written  to  Ehrenfest  on  29  March  from  Paris,  where  he  had  another 
meeting,  and  appears  to  have  travelled  to  Brussels  directly  from  there.4 

a  Cf.  p.  EMI  of  the  report. 


126 


Schrddinger's  wave  mechanics 


the  widespread  view  that  the  wave  describes  only  ensembles,  as  well  as 
his  own  'preferred  interpretation  as  a  real  description  of  the  individual 
system,  which  thereby  becomes  a  kind  of  "mollusc" ' .  In  the  letter  (but 
not  in  the  report),  he  is  explicit  about  some  of  his  misgivings  about  the 
ensemble  view  (as  well  as  about  the  difficulties  with  his  own  preferred 
understanding,  namely  the  'failure  of  the  electrons  to  stay  together 
and  similar').  Indeed,  he  points  out  that  the  Schrodinger  equation  is 
time-symmetric  (if  one  includes  complex  conjugation),  while  experience 
teaches  us  that  the  statistical  behaviour  of  ensembles  cannot  be  descri- 
bed time-symmetrically.  Also,  insistence  on  a  statistical  interpretation 
leads  to  'mystical'  calculations  with  amplitudes  and  thus  to  problems 
with  the  laws  of  probability.7 


4.2  Summary  of  the  report 

The  eventual  form  of  Schrodinger's  report  follows  roughly  the  sketch 
given  above,  with  an  introduction,  followed  by  three  main  sections, 
respectively  on  the  configuration-space  theory,  on  the  spacetime  theory 
and  on  the  many-electron  problem. 

Introduction.  Schrodinger  draws  the  distinction  between  the  spacetime 
theory  (four-dimensional)  and  the  configuration-space  theory  (multi-di- 
mensional). He  states  that  the  use  of  configuration  space  is  a  mathe- 
matical way  for  describing  what  are  in  fact  events  in  space  and  time. 
However,  it  is  the  multi-dimensional  theory  that  is  the  most  successful 
and  has  proved  to  be  a  powerful  analytic  tool  in  relation  to  Heisenberg 
and  Born's  matrix  mechanics.  The  multi-dimensional  point  of  view  has 
not  been  reconciled  yet  with  the  four-dimensional  oneO 

I.  Multi- dimensional  theory.  Schrodinger  sketches  a  derivation  of  his 
time-independent  wave  equation,  noting  that  it  reproduces  or  improves 
on  the  results  of  Bohr's  quantum  theory.  He  also  notes  that  the  stationa- 
ry states  allow  one  to  calculate  the  transition  probabilities  encountered 
in  matrix  mechanics.  If  one  wishes  to  consistently  develop  a  forma- 
lism in  which  there  are  only  discontinuous  transitions,  he  suggests  one 
should  take  seriously  the  idea  that  the  transitions  do  not  occur  against 
a  continuous  time  background;  the  appearence  of  a  continuous  time 

a  As  becomes  clear  in  the  discussion,  Schrodinger  thinks  that  the  multi-dimensional 
theory  may  prove  indispensable,  so  that  one  should  accept  the  notion  of  a  if>- 
function  on  configuration  space  and  try  instead  to  understand  its  physical  meaning 
in  terms  of  its  manifestation  in  space  and  time.  (See  the  discussion  in  section [4741 
below.) 


4-2  Summary  of  the  report  127 

parameter  would  be  purely  statistical,  so  to  speak@  As  an  alternative, 
he  suggests  interpreting  the  time-independent  equation  as  arising  from 
a  time-dependent  one  from  which  the  time  variable  is  eliminated  by 
assuming  a  stationary  solution.  He  thus  arrives  to  the  description  of  a 
quantum  system  in  terms  of  a  time-dependent  wave  function  on  confi- 
guration space.  He  then  asks  what  the  meaning  of  this  wave  function  is: 
Lhow  does  the  system  described  by  it  really  look  like  in  three  dimensions?' 
(p.  14531  Schrodinger's  emphasis).  He  briefly  mentions  the  view  that  the 
^-function  describes  an  ensemble  of  systems,  which  Born  and  Heisenberg 
are  going  to  discuss.  Schrodinger  instead  finds  it  useful  (if  perhaps  'a 
bit  naive')  to  imagine  an  individual  system  as  continuously  filling  the 
whole  of  space  somehow  weighted  by  \ijj\2  (as  he  further  clarifies  in  the 
discussion).  Schrodinger  then  carefully  spells  out  that  the  spatial  density 
resulting  from  the  configuration  space  density  is  not  a  classical  charge 
density,  in  the  sense  that  the  action  on  the  particles  by  external  fields 
and  the  interaction  between  the  particles  are  already  described  by  the 
potentials  in  the  wave  equation,  and  that  it  is  inconsistent  to  assume  that 
this  spatial  density  is  also  acted  upon  in  the  manner  of  a  classical  charge 
density.  Instead,  it  is  possible  to  interpret  it  as  a  charge  density  (with 
some  qualifications,  some  of  which  are  spelled  out  only  in  the  discussion) 
for  the  purpose  of  calculating  the  (classical)  radiation  field,  thus  yielding 
a  partial  vindication  of  the  idea  of  spatial  densities.  This,  however,  must 
be  an  approximation,  since  the  observation  of  such  emitted  radiation  is 
itself  an  interaction  between  the  emitting  atom  and  some  other  absorbing 
atom  or  molecule,  to  be  described  again  by  the  appropriate  potentials 
in  the  wave  equation. 

II.  Four- dimensional  theory.  Schrodinger  shows  that  the  time-depend- 
ent wave  equation  for  a  single  particle  is  a  nonrelativistic  approximation 
(with  subtraction  of  a  rest  frequency)  to  the  wave  equation  for  the 
de  Broglie  phase  wave  of  the  particle.  The  latter  can  be  made  manifestly 
relativistic  by  including  vector  potentials.  (In  modern  terminology,  this 
is  the  Klein-Gordon  equation.)  If  one  couples  the  Maxwell  field  to  it, 
the  same  spatial  densities  discussed  in  section  I  appear  as  charge  (and 
current)  densities.  However,  in  the  application  to  the  electron  in  the 
hydrogen  atom,  it  becomes  apparent  that  adding  the  self-field  of  the 
electron  to  the  (external)  field  of  the  nucleus  yields  the  wrong  resultsEI 
Thus  Schrodinger  argues  that  if  one  hopes  to  develop  a  spacetime  theory 
of  interacting  particles,  it  will  be  necessary  to  consider  not  just  the 

a  Cf.  the  discussion  in  ch.  18.11 

a  Cf.  Schrodinger  (1927b),  as  mentioned  in  section l4~6l below. 


128 


Schrddinger's  wave  mechanics 


overall  field  generated  by  the  particles,  but  to  distinguish  between  the 
(spatially  overlapping)  fields  generated  by  each  individual  particle,  each 
field  acting  only  on  the  other  particles  of  the  system.  Finally,  he  notes 
that  the  Klein-Gordon  equation  needs  to  be  modified  in  order  to  describe 
spin  effects,  and  that  it  may  be  possible  to  do  so  by  considering  a 
vectorial  instead  of  a  scalar  tp. 

III.  The  many- electron  problem.  Schrodinger  returns  to  the  multi- 
dimensional theory  and  its  treatment,  by  approximation,  of  the  many- 
electron  atom.  His  interest  in  this  specific  example  relates  to  the  question 
of  whether  this  multi-dimensional  system  can  be  understood  in  spaceti- 
me  terms.  The  treatment  first  neglects  the  interaction  potentials  between 
the  electrons,  and  as  a  first  approximation  takes  products  ip^  . . .  ipkn  of 
the  single-electron  wave  functions  as  solutions.  One  then  expands  the 
solution  of  the  full  equation  in  terms  of  the  product  wave  functions.  The 
time-dependent  coefficients  ak1...kn{t)  in  this  expansion  can  then  be  cal- 
culated approximately  if  the  interaction  between  the  electrons  is  small. 
Schrodinger  shows  that  —  before  any  approximation  —  the  coefficients 
in  the  equations  for  the  a,k1...kn{i)  depend  only  on  potentials  calculated 
from  the  spatial  charge  densities  associated  with  the  ipkf  Thus,  although 
the  solution  to  the  full  equation  is  a  function  on  configuration  space,  it  is 
determined  by  purely  spatial  charge  densities.  According  to  Schrodinger, 
this  reinforces  the  hope  of  providing  a  spatial  interpretation  of  the  wave 
function.  A  sketch  of  the  approximation  method  concludes  this  section 
and  the  report. 


4.3  Particles  as  wave  packets 

The  idea  of  particles  as  wave  packets  is  crucial  to  the  development  of 
Schrodinger's  ideas  and  appears  to  provide  one  of  the  main  motivations, 
at  least  initially,  behind  the  idea  of  a  description  of  matter  purely  in 
terms  of  waves. 

Schrodinger's  earliest  speculation  about  wave  packets  (for  both  ma- 
terial particles  and  light  quanta)  is  found  in  his  paper  on  Einstein's 
gas  statistics  (1926a),  in  section  5,  'On  the  possibility  of  representing 
molecules  or  light  quanta  through  interference  of  phase  waves'.  As  he 
explains,  Schrodinger  finds  it  uncanny  that  in  de  Broglie's  theory  one 
should  consider  the  phase  waves  of  the  corpuscles  to  be  plane  waves,  since 
it  is  clear  that  by  appropriate  superposition  of  different  plane  waves  one 
can  construct  a  'signal',  which  following  Debye  (1909)  and  von  Laue 


4-3  Particles  as  wave  packets 


129 


(1914,  section  2)  can  be  constrained  to  a  small  spatial  volume.  He  then 
continues: 

On  the  other  hand,  it  is  of  course  not  to  be  achieved  by  the  classical  wave 
laws,  that  the  constructed  'model  of  a  light  quantum'  —  which  by  the  way 
extends  indeed  for  many  wavelengths  in  every  direction  —  also  permanently 
stays  together.  Rather,  it  spreads  itself  out  [zerstreut  sich]  over  ever  larger 
volumes  after  passing  through  a  focal  point. 

If  one  could  avoid  this  last  conclusion  by  a  quantum  theoretical  modification 
of  the  classical  wave  laws,  then  a  way  to  deliverance  from  the  light  quantum 
dilemma  would  appear  to  be  paved  [angebahnt].  (1926a,  p.  101) 

Wave  packets  are  first  discussed  at  length  in  the  second  paper  on 
quantisation  (1926c):  after  describing  the  optical-mechanical  analogy, 
Schrodinger  discusses  how  one  can  construct  wave  packets  (using  the 
analogues  of  the  optical  constructions  by  Debye  and  von  Laue),  and 
then  shows  that  the  centroid  of  such  a  wave  packet  follows  the  classical 
equations  of  motion.  Schrodinger  conjectures  that  material  points  are  in 
fact  described  by  wave  packets  of  small  dimensions.  He  notes  also  that, 
for  systems  moving  along  very  small  orbits,  the  packet  will  be  spread  out, 
so  that  the  idea  of  the  trajectory  or  of  the  position  of  the  electron  inside 
the  atom  loses  its  meaning.  In  fact,  the  main  problem  that  Schrodinger 
was  to  face  with  regard  to  wave  packets  turned  out  to  be  that  spreading 
of  wave  packets  is  a  much  more  generic  feature  than  he  imagined  at  first. 

As  mentioned,  Schrodinger  sent  to  Lorentz  the  proofs  of  his  first 
two  papers  on  quantisation  (1926b, c)  on  30  March  1926.  In  his  reply, 
among  many  other  things,  Lorentz  discussed  explicitly  the  idea  of  wave 
packets,  indeed  doubting  that  they  would  stay  together  (Przibram  1967, 
pp.  47-8)@  Schrodinger  commented  on  this  both  in  his  reply  of  6  June 
(Przibram  1967,  pp.  55-66)  and  in  an  earlier  letter  of  31  May  to  Planck 
(Przibram  1967,  pp.  8-11).  In  the  latter,  he  admits  that  there  will  always 
exist  spread-out  states,  because  of  linearity,  but  still  hopes  it  will  be 
possible  to  construct  packets  that  stay  together  for  hydrogen  orbits 
of  high  quantum  number.  As  he  notes  in  the  reply  to  Lorentz,  this 
would  imply  that  there  is  no  general  identification  between  hydrogen 
eigenstates  and  Bohr  orbits,  since  a  Bohr  orbit  of  high  quantum  number 
would  be  represented  by  a  wave  packet  rather  than  a  stationary  wave. 
(For  an  electron  in  a  hydrogen  orbit  of  low  quantum  number,  Schrodinger 

a  As  Lorentz  remarks,  the  alternative  would  be  'to  dissolve  the  electron  completely 
....  and  to  replace  it  by  a  system  of  waves'  (p.  48),  which,  however,  would  make  it 
difficult  to  understand  phenomena  such  as  the  photoelectric  effect.  The  latter  was 
in  fact  one  of  the  criticisms  levelled  at  Schrodinger's  theory  by  Heisenberg  (see 
below,  section  f4~6ll . 


130 


Schrddinger's  wave  mechanics 


did  not  envisage  an  orbiting  packet  but  indeed  a  spread-out  electron.) 
With  the  reply  to  Lorentz,  Schrodinger  further  sent  his  paper  on  micro- 
and  macromechanics  (1926e),  in  which  he  showed  that  for  the  harmonic 
oscillator,  wave  packets  do  stay  together.  He  hoped  that  the  result  would 
generalise  to  all  quasi-periodic  motions  (admitting  that  maybe  there 
would  be  'dissolution'  for  a  free  electron).  However,  on  19  June  Lorentz 
sent  Schrodinger  a  calculation  showing  that  wave  packets  on  a  high 
hydrogen  orbit  would  indeed  spread  out  (cf.  Przibram  1967,  pp.  69-71, 
where  the  details  of  the  calculation,  however,  are  omitted). 

The  relevance  of  high  hydrogen  orbits  is,  of  course,  the  role  they 
play  in  Bohr's  correspondence  principle.  The  fact  that  wave  packets 
along  such  orbits  do  not  stay  together  was  thus  a  blow  for  any  hopes 
Schrodinger  might  have  had  of  explaining  the  transition  from  micro-  to 
macromechanics  along  the  lines  of  the  correspondence  principle. 

A  further  blow  to  the  idea  of  wave  packets  must  have  come  with  Born's 
papers  on  collision  theory  during  the  summer  of  1926  (Born  1926a, b;  cf. 
sectionl3.4. 31  above).  In  the  equivalence  paper,  Schrodinger  had  included 
a  remark  about  scattering,  for  which,  he  wrote,  it  is  'indeed  necessary  to 
understand  clearly  the  continuous  transition  between  the  macroscopic 
anschaulich  mechanics  and  the  micromechanics  of  the  atom'  (1926d, 
p.  753;  see  below,  section  l4~6t  for  the  notion  of  Anschaulichkeit) .  Given 
that  at  the  time  Schrodinger  thought  that  electrons  on  high  quantum 
orbits  should  be  described  by  wave  packets,  this  remark  may  indicate 
that  Schrodinger  also  thought  that  scattering  should  involve  a  deflection 
of  wave  packets,  which  would  move  asymptotically  in  straight  linesQ 

Born's  work  on  collisions  in  the  summer  of  1926  made  essential  use 
of  wave  mechanics,  but  suggested  a  very  different  picture  of  scatte- 
ring. Born  explicitly  understood  his  work  as  providing  an  alternative 
interpretation  both  to  his  earlier  views  on  matrix  mechanics  and  to 
Schrodinger's  views.  In  turn,  Schrodinger  appeared  to  be  sceptical  of 
Born's  suggestions,  writing  on  25  August  to  Wilhelm  Wien: 

Prom  an  offprint  of  Born's  last  work  in  the  Zeitsch.  f.  Phys.  I  know  more  or 
less  how  he  thinks  of  things:  the  waves  must  be  strictly  causally  determined 
through  field  laws,  the  wavefunctions  on  the  other  hand  have  only  the  meaning 
of  probabilities  for  the  actual  motions  of  light-  or  material-particles.  I  believe 
that  Born  thereby  overlooks  that  ....  it  would  depend  on  the  taste  of  the 
observer  which  he  now  wishes  to  regard  as  real,  the  particle  or  the  guiding 
field.  (Quoted  in  Moore  1989,  p.  225) 

a  If  thus  was  indeed  Schrodinger's  intuition,  it  may  seem  quite  remarkable.  On  the 
other  hand,  so  is  the  fact  that  Schrodinger  does  not  seem  to  discuss  diffraction  of 
material  particles,  which  seems  equally  problematic  for  the  idea  of  wave  packets. 


4-3  Particles  as  wave  packets 


131 


A  few  days  later,  Schrodinger  submitted  a  review  paper  on  'undulatory 
mechanics'  to  the  Physical  Review  (1926h).  In  it,  he  qualified  rather 
strongly  the  idea  that  'material  points  consist  of,  or  are  nothing  but, 
wave  systems'  (p.  1049).  Indeed,  he  continued  (pp.  1049-50): 

This  extreme  conception  may  be  wrong,  indeed  it  does  not  offer  as  yet  the 
slightest  explanation  of  why  such  wave-systems  seem  to  be  realized  in  nature 

as  correspond  to  mass-points  of  definite  mass  and  charge          a  thorough 

correlation  of  all  features  of  physical  phenomena  can  probably  be  afforded 
only  by  a  harmonious  union  of  these  two  extremes. 

During  the  general  discussion  at  the  Solvay  conference,  Schrodinger 
summarised  the  situation  with  the  following  words  (this  volume,  p.!518|): 

The  original  picture  was  this,  that  what  moves  is  in  reality  not  a  point  but 

a  domain  of  excitation  of  finite  dimensions    One  has  since  found  that 

the  naive  identification  of  an  electron,  moving  on  a  macroscopic  orbit,  with 
a  wave  packet  encounters  difficulties  and  so  cannot  be  accepted  to  the  letter. 
The  main  difficulty  is  this,  that  with  certainty  the  wave  packet  spreads  in 
all  directions  when  it  strikes  an  obstacle,  an  atom  for  example.  We  know 
today,  from  the  interference  experiments  with  cathode  rays  by  Davisson  and 
Germer,  that  this  is  part  of  the  truth,  while  on  the  other  hand  the  Wilson 
cloud  chamber  experiments  have  shown  that  there  must  be  something  that 
continues  to  describe  a  well-defined  trajectory  after  the  collision  with  the 
obstacle.  I  regard  the  compromise  proposed  from  different  sides,  which  consists 
of  assuming  a  combination  of  waves  and  point  electrons,  as  simply  a  provisional 
manner  of  resolving  the  difficulty. 

The  problem  of  the  relation  between  micro-  and  macrophysics  is  connec- 
ted of  course  to  the  linearity  of  the  wave  equation,  which  appears  to 
lead  directly  to  highly  nonclassical  states  (witness  Schrodinger's  famous 


er  himself  considered  the  idea  of  a  nonlinear  wave  equation.  In  this 
connection,  a  few  remarks  by  Schrodinger  may  be  worth  investigating 
further.  One  explicit,  if  early,  reference  to  nonlinearity  is  contained  in  the 
letter  of  31  May  to  Planck,  where,  after  noticing  that  linearity  forces  the 
existence  of  non-classical  states,  Schrodinger  indeed  speculates  that  the 
equations  might  be  only  approximately  linear  (Przibram  1967,  p.  10).  In 
the  correspondence  with  Lorentz,  the  question  of  nonlinearity  arises  in 
other  contexts.  In  the  context  of  the  problem  of  radiation,  it  appears  at 
first  to  be  necessary  for  combination  tones  to  arise  (pp.  49-50).  In  the 

a  Note,  on  the  other  hand,  that  Schulman  (1997)  shows  there  are  'classical'  solutions 
to  the  linear  equation  in  quite  realistic  models  of  coupling  between  micro-  and 
macrosystems  (measurements),  provided  one  requires  them  to  satify  appropriate 
boundary  conditions  at  both  the  initial  and  the  final  time. 


Schroding- 


132 


Schrddinger's  wave  mechanics 


context  of  radiation  reaction,  Schrodinger  writes  that  the  exchange  with 
Lorentz  has  convinced  him  of  the  necessity  of  nonlinear  terms  (p.  62).  In 
print,  Schrodinger  mentioned  the  possibility  of  a  nonlinear  term  in  order 
to  include  radiaton  reaction  in  his  fourth  paper  on  quantisation  (1926g, 
p.  130)0  Finally,  a  few  years  later,  in  his  second  paper  on  entanglement 
(1936,  pp.  451-2),  Schrodinger  mentioned  the  possibility  of  spontaneous 
decay  of  entanglement  at  spatial  separation,  which  would  have  meant  a 
yet  untested  violation  of  the  Schrodinger  equation. 

Modern  collapse  theories,  such  as  those  by  Ghirardi,  Rimini  and  We- 
ber (1986)  or  by  Pearle  (1976,  1979,  1989),  modify  the  Schrodinger 
equation  stochastically,  in  a  way  that  successfully  counteracts  spreading 
with  increasing  scale  of  the  system.  Schrodinger's  strategy  based  on  wave 
packets  thus  appears  to  be  viable  at  least  if  one  accepts  stochastic  modi- 
fications to  Schrodinger's  equation  (as  Schrodinger  was  not  necessarily 
likely  to  do). 

Note  that  while  crucial,  the  failure  of  the  straightforward  idea  of  wave 
packets  for  representing  the  macroscopic,  or  classical,  regime  of  the  theo- 
ry is  distinct  from  the  question  of  whether  Schrodinger's  wave  picture 
could  adequately  describe  what  appeared  to  be  other  examples  or  clear 
indications  of  particulate  or  'discontinuous'  behaviour,  such  as  encounte- 
red in  the  photoelectric  effect.  This  question  was  particularly  important 
in  the  dialogue  with  Heisenberg  and  Bohr  (section  14.6ft .  We  shall  also 
see  that  Schrodinger  continued  to  explore  how  continuous  waves  might 
provide  descriptions  of  apparently  particulate  or  discontinuous  quantum 
phenomena,  such  as  the  Compton  effect,  quantum  jumps,  blackbody 
radiation  and  even  the  photoelectric  effect  (section  14. 6.3j). 

a  An  explicit  proposal  for  including  radiation  reaction  through  a  nonlinear  term  is 
due  to  Fermi  (1927).  Classically,  if  one  includes  radiation  reaction,  one  has  the 
third-order  nonrelativistic  Abraham-Lorentz  equation 

x  —  tx  =  F/m  ,  (1) 

where  F  is  the  externally  applied  force  and  t  =  (2/3)e2  /mc3  (e  is  the  electron 
charge,  m  is  the  mass).  Fermi  (1927)  proposed  modifying  the  Schrodinger  equation 
as  follows: 

i        =  Hty  -  niTfa—  /  d3x'  **x'*  .  (2) 

dt  dts  J  V  ' 

That  is,  he  added  an  extra  'potential'  — mrx-ij  (x).  Rederiving  the  Ehrenfest 
theorem,  one  finds  that  (x)  then  obeys  the  above  Abraham-Lorentz  equation. 


4-4  The  problem  of  radiation 


133 


4.4  The  problem  of  radiation 


In  Bohr's  theory  of  the  atom,  the  frequency  of  emitted  light  corresponded 
not  to  the  frequency  of  oscillation  of  an  electron  on  a  Bohr  orbit,  but 
to  the  term  difference  between  two  Bohr  orbits.  No  known  mechanism 
could  explain  the  difference  between  the  frequency  of  oscillation  and 
the  frequency  of  emission.  Bohr's  theory  simply  postulated  quantum 
jumps  Ei  — ►  Ej  between  the  stationary  states  of  energy  Ei  and  Ej, 
accompanied  by  emission  (or  absorption)  of  light  of  the  corresponding 
frequency  =  E%  j—1 .  In  this  respect,  the  Bohr-Kramers-Slater  (BKS) 
theory  had  the  advantage  of  postulating  a  collection  of  virtual  oscillators 
with  the  observed  frequencies.  This  was  also,  in  a  sense,  that  aspect  of 
the  BKS  theory  that  survived  into  Heisenberg's  matrix  mechanicsE 

The  idea  that  wave  mechanics  could  provide  a  continuous  description 
of  the  radiation  process  (as  opposed  to  the  picture  of  quantum  jumps) 
appears  to  have  been  also  one  of  the  main  bones  of  contention  between 
Schrodinger  and  the  Copenhagen-Gottingen  physicists.  As  Schrodinger 
wrote  to  Lorentz  on  6  June  1926: 

The  frequency  discrepancy  in  the  Bohr  model,  on  the  other  hand,  seems  to 
me,  (and  has  indeed  seemed  to  me  since  1914),  to  be  something  so  monstrous, 
that  I  should  like  to  characterize  the  excitation  of  light  in  this  way  as  really 
almost  inconceivable.  (Przibram  1967,  p.  6lj3 

The  reaction  by  Schrodinger  to  the  BKS  theory  instead  was  quite  enthu- 
siastic. In  part,  Schrodinger  was  well  predisposed  towards  the  possibility 
that  energy  and  momentum  conservation  be  only  statistically  valid@  In 
part  (as  argued  by  de  Regt,  1997),  this  was  precisely  because  the  BKS 
theory  provided  a  mechanism  for  radiation,  in  fact  a  very  anschaulich 
mechanism,  albeit  'virtual'.  Schrodinger  published  a  paper  on  the  BKS 
theory,  containing  an  estimate  of  its  energy  fluctuations  (1924b)E3 


In  1926,  with  the  development  of  wave  mechanics,  Schrodinger  saw  a 
new  possibility  of  conceiving  a  mechanism  for  radiation:  the  superposi- 

a  See  above  section rOl  ( p.  [T3)l  and  chapter [3]  especially  section [3. 3. II 
a  The  emphasis  here  is  strong,  but  cf.  the  context  of  this  passage  in  Schrodinger's 
letter. 

b  Cf.  Schrodinger  to  Pauli,  8  November  1922,  in  Pauli  (1979,  pp.  69-71).  The  idea 
of  abandoning  exact  conservation  laws  seems  to  be  derived  from  Schrodinger's 
teacher  Exner  (ibid.,  and  Moore  1989,  pp.  152-4).  Schrodinger  publicly  stated 
this  view  and  allegiance  in  his  inaugural  lecture  at  the  University  of  Zurich  (9 
December  1922),  published  as  Schrodinger  (1929a). 

c  Cf.  Darrigol  (1992,  pp.  247-8)  on  the  problem  of  the  indefinite  growth  of  the 
energy  fluctuations  with  time  (as  raised  in  particular  by  Einstein).  According  to 
Schrodinger,  an  isolated  system  would  behave  in  this  way,  but  the  problem  would 
disappear  for  a  system  coupled  to  an  infinite  thermal  bath. 


134 


Schrddinger's  wave  mechanics 


tion  of  two  waves  would  involve  two  frequencies,  and  emitted  radiation 
could  be  understood  as  some  kind  of  'difference  tone'.  In  his  first  paper 
on  quantisation  (1926b),  Schrodinger  states  that  this  picture  would  be 
'much  more  pleasing  [um  vieles  sympathischer]'  than  the  one  of  quantum 
jumps  (p.  375),  but  the  idea  is  rather  sketchy:  Schrodinger  speculates 
that  the  energies  of  the  different  eigenstates  all  share  a  large  constant 
term,  and  that  if  the  square  of  the  frequency  is  proportional  to  mc2  +E, 
then  the  frequency  differences  (and  therefore  the  beat  frequencies)  are 
approximately  given  by  the  hydrogen  term  differences.  The  second  paper 
(1926c)  refers  to  radiation  only  in  passing. 

Commenting  on  these  papers  in  his  letter  to  Schrodinger  of  27  May, 
Lorentz  pointed  out  that  while  beats  would  arise  if  the  time-dependent 
wave  equation  (which  Schrodinger  did  not  have  yet)  were  linear,  they 
would  still  not  produce  radiation  by  any  known  mechanism.  Combinati- 
on tones  would  arise  if  the  wave  equation  were  nonlinear  (Przibram  1967, 
pp.  49-50).  As  becomes  clear  in  the  following  letters  between  Schrodinger 
and  Lorentz,  once  the  charge  density  of  a  particle  is  associated  with  a 
quadratic  function  oiip,  such  as  \ip\2,  'difference  tones'  in  the  oscillating 
charge  density  arise  regardless  of  whether  the  wave  equation  is  linear  or 
nonlinear. 

This  idea  is  still  the  basis  of  today's  semiclassical  radiation  theory 
(often  used  in  quantum  optics),  that  is,  the  determination  of  classical 
electromagnetic  radiation  from  the  current  associated  with  a  charge  den- 
sity proportional  to  \ip\2  (for  a  non-stationary  -0)0  Schrodinger  arrived 
at  this  result  through  his  work  connecting  wave  mechanics  and  matrix 
mechanics  (his  'equivalence  paper',  1926d).  In  fact,  Schrodinger  showed 
how  to  express  the  elements  of  Heisenberg's  matrices  wave  mechani- 
cally, in  particular  the  elements  of  the  dipole  moment  matrix,  which 
(by  correspondence  arguments)  were  interpreted  as  proportional  to  the 
radiation  intensities.  Schrodinger  now  suggested  it  might  be  possible  'to 
give  an  extraordinarily  anschaulich  interpretation  of  the  intensity  and 
polarisation  of  radiation'  (1926d,  p.  755),  by  defining  an  appropriate 
charge  density  in  terms  of  ip.  In  this  paper,  he  suggested  as  yet,  for  a 
single  electron,  to  use  (the  real  part  of)  the  quadratic  function  V'^-- 

The  third  paper  on  quantisation  (1926f)  is  concerned  with  pertur- 
bation theory  and  its  application  to  the  Stark  effect,  but  Schrodinger 
notes  in  an  addendum  in  proof  (footnote  on  p.  476)  that  the  correct 

a  This  method  is  touched  on  previously.  Pauli  uses  it  (for  the  case  of  one  particle) 
in  calculating  the  scattered  radiation  in  the  Compton  effect  during  the  discussion 
after  Compton's  talk  (p.  136411. 


4-4  The  problem  of  radiation 


135 


charge  density  is  given  by  \ip\2.  In  the  letter  to  Lorentz  of  6  June  1926, 
he  explains  in  detail  how  this  gives  rise  to  a  sensible  notion  of  charge 
density  also  for  several  particles,  each  contribution  being  obtained  by 
integrating  over  the  other  particles  (Przibram  1967,  p.  56).  This  idea  is 
then  used  and  discussed  in  print  (as  a  'heuristic  hypothesis')  in  the  fourth 
paper  on  quantisation  (1926g,  p.  118,  Schrodinger's  italics),  where  the 
wave  function  is  also  explicitly  interpreted  in  terms  of  a  superposition 
of  all  classical  configurations  of  a  system  weighted  by  \4>\2 ,  and  the  time 
constancy  of  /  \ip\2  is  derived  (pp.  135-6)0 

This  is  also  the  picture  of  the  wave  function  given  by  Schrodinger  in 
the  Solvay  report  (pp.[453]ff.).  Schrodinger  discreetly  skips  discussing  the 
view  of  the  wave  function  as  describing  only  an  ensemble.  Schrodinger's 
concern  in  interpreting  the  wave  function  is  to  understand  its  manifesta- 
tion in  spacetime.  This  concern  also  motivates  Schrodinger's  discussion 
of  the  many-electron  atonjf],  where  he  stresses  that  the  spatial  charge 
distributions  of  the  single  (non-interacting)  electrons  already  determine 
the  wave  function  of  the  interacting  electrons. 

In  the  report,  Schrodinger  starts  by  rephrasing  the  question  of  the 
meaning  of  the  wave  function  as  that  of  how  a  system  described  by  a 
certain  (multi-particle)  wave  function  looks  like  in  three  dimensions.  He 
describes  this  as  taking  all  possible  configurations  of  the  classical  system 
simultaneously  and  weighting  them  according  to  \tp\2.  To  this  picture  of 
the  system  as  a  'snapshot'  (as  he  calls  it  in  the  report)  or  as  a  'mollusc' 
(as  he  had  written  to  Lorentz)  Schrodinger  then  associates  the  correspon- 
ding electric  charge  density  in  3-space.  He  is  careful  to  state,  however, 
that  this  is  not  an  electric  charge  in  the  usual  sense.  For  one  thing,  the 
electromagnetic  field  does  not  exert  forces  on  it.  While  this  charge  does 
describe  the  sources  of  the  field  in  the  semi-classical  theory,  this  coupling 
of  the  field  to  the  charges  is  described  as  'provisional',  first,  because  of 
the  problem  of  radiation  reaction  (which  is  not  taken  into  account  in  the 
Schrodinger  equation),  and  second,  because  within  a  closed  system  it  is 
inconsistent  to  model  the  interaction  between  different  charged  particles 
using  the  semi-classical  field.  In  particular,  the  observation  of  emitted 
radiation  is  in  principle  again  a  quantum  mechanical  interaction,  and 
should  be  described  by  corresponding  potentials  in  the  equation  for  the 
total  system. 

a  The  latter  question  had  also  been  raised  by  Lorentz  (Przibram  1967,  p.  71)  and 
answered  in  Schrodinger's  next  letter,  not  included  in  Przibram's  collection.8 

a  Previously  unpublished  but  deriving  from  methods  used  in  Schrodinger's  paper  on 
energy  exchange  (1927c). 


136  Schrddinger's  wave  mechanics 

The  above  picture  of  the  wave  function  and  the  question  of  regarding 
Schrodinger's  formal  charge  density  as  a  source  of  classical  electromag- 
netic radiation  evidently  raised  many  questions.  (Schrodinger  introduces 
the  discussion  after  his  report  by  the  remark:  'It  would  seem  that  my 
description  in  terms  of  a  snapshot  was  not  very  fortunate,  since  it  has  be- 
en misunderstood',  p.  4681)  It  also  elicited  the  most  discussion  following 
Schrodinger's  reportlf 

A  difficulty  that  is  spelled  out  only  in  the  discussion  (contributions 
by  Bohr  and  by  Schrodinger,  p.  1468(1 .  is  that  using  Schrodinger's  dipole 
moment  (equation  lfl3|)  in  Schrodinger's  talk)  to  calculate  the  radiation 
does  not  directly  yield  the  correct  intensities.  As  pointed  out  in  the 
talk,  if  one  evaluates  the  dipole  moment  for  a  superposition  J2kck^k, 
one  obtains  terms  containing  the  integrals  — e  /  qipk^idr.  These  are  the 
matrix  elements  of  the  dipole  moment  matrix  in  matrix  mechanics,  and 
they  can  be  used  within  certain  limits  to  calculate  the  emitted  radiation 
(in  particular,  as  Schrodinger  points  out,  vanishing  of  the  integral  implies 
vanishing  of  the  corresponding  spectral  line).  However,  these  integrals 
appear  with  the  coefficients  c^e*,  whereas  both  according  to  Bohr's  old 
quantum  theory  and  to  experiment,  the  intensity  of  radiation  should  not 
depend  on  the  coefficient  of  the  'final  state',  say  ipi.  Thus,  the  use  of  (|  13|) 
as  a  classical  dipole  moment  in  the  calculation  of  emitted  radiation  does 
not  in  general  yield  the  correct  intensities. 

Bohr  also  drew  attention  to  the  fact  that  by  the  time  of  the  Solvay 
conference,  Dirac  (1927b, c)  had  already  published  his  treatment  of  the 
interaction  of  the  (Schrodinger)  electron  with  the  quantised  electro- 
magnetic field.  Schrodinger  replied  that  he  was  aware  of  Dirac's  work, 
but  had  the  same  misgivings  with  q-numbers  as  he  had  with  matrices: 
the  lack  of  'physical  meaning',  without  which  he  thought  the  further 
development  of  a  relativistic  theory  would  be  difficult  El 


a  The  rest  of  the  discussion  includes  a  few  technical  questions  and  comments 
(contributions  by  Fowler  and  De  Donder,  Born's  report  on  some  numerical  work 
on  perturbation  theory),  and  some  discussion  of  the  'three-dimensionality'  of  the 
many-electron  atom.  Further  discussion  of  the  meaning  of  Schrodinger's  charge 
densities  (and  of  the  meaning  of  the  Schrodinger  wave  in  the  context  of  the 
transformation  theory  of  matrix  mechanics)  took  place  in  the  general  discussion, 
especially  in  contributions  by  Dirac  and  by  Kramers  fpp.l49llandl495]l. 

a  Note  that  in  his  treatment  of  the  emission  of  radiation  in  The  Physical  Principles 
of  the  Quantum  Theory  (Heisenberg  1930b,  pp.  82-4),  Heisenberg  seems  to  follow 
and  expand  on  the  discussion  of  Schrodinger's  report.  Indeed,  Heisenberg  first 
describes  two  related  methods  for  calculating  the  radiation,  based  respectively  on 
calculating  the  matrix  element  of  the  dipole  moment  of  the  atom  (justified  via  the 
correspondence  principle),  and  on  calculating  the  dipole  moment  of  Schrodinger's 
'virtual  charges'  (as  he  calls  them).  He  then  explains  precisely  the  difficulty  with 


4-5  Schrddinger  and  de  Broglie 


137 


If  the  interpretation  of  the  wave  function  as  a  charge  density  raises 
problems  of  principle  (as  Born  and  Heisenberg  also  stress  in  their  report, 
p.  I435|l.  what  is  the  point  of  suggesting  such  an  interpretation?  One 
possible  way  of  understanding  Schrodinger's  intentions  is  to  say  that  he 
is  proposing  an  anschaulich  image  of  the  wave  function  in  terms  of  the 
spatial  density  it  defines,  without  in  general  specifying  the  dynamical  role 
played  by  this  density.  Under  certain  circumstances,  then,  this  spatial 
density  takes  on  the  dynamical  role  of  a  charge  density,  in  particular 
as  a  source  of  radiation.  This  point  of  view  does  not  resolve  the  other 
problems  connected  with  the  wave  conception  of  matter  (spreading  of 
the  wave  packet,  Schrodinger's  cat,  micro-macro  question),  but  it  offers 
a  platform  from  which  to  work  towards  their  possible  resolution.  This 
of  course  may  be  an  overinterpretation  of  Schrodinger's  position,  but  it 
fits  approximately  with  later  developments  that  take  Schrodinger's  wave 
conception  seriously,  e.g.  Bell's  (1990)  idea  of  \ip\2  as  'density  of  stuff' 
(in  configuration  space). 

4.5  Schrodinger  and  de  Broglie 

Thus  opens  Schrodinger's  review  paper  on  wave  mechanics  for  the  Phy- 
sical Review  (1926h,  p.  1049,  references  omitted): 

The  theory  which  is  reported  in  the  following  pages  is  based  on  the  very 
interesting  and  fundamental  researches  of  L.  de  Broglie  on  what  he  called 
'phase  waves'  ('ondes  de  phase')  and  thought  to  be  associated  with  the  motion 
of  material  points,  especially  with  the  motion  of  an  electron  or  [photon]  Q  The 
point  of  view  taken  here,  which  was  first  published  in  a  series  of  German 
papers,  is  rather  that  material  points  consist  of,  or  are  nothing  but,  wave- 
systems. 

This  passage  both  illustrates  the  well-known  fact  that  Schrodinger  arri- 
ved at  his  wave  mechanics  by  developing  further  the  ideas  of  de  Broglie 
—  starting  with  his  paper  on  gas  statistics  (Schrodinger  1926a)  —  and 
emphasises  the  main  conceptual  difference  between  de  Broglie's  and 
Schrodinger's  approaches. 

While  some  details  of  the  relation  between  Schrodinger's  and  de  Bro- 
glie's work  are  discussed  in  section  f2~3l  in  this  section  we  wish  to  raise 
the  question  of  why  Schrodinger  should  have  developed  such  a  different 

the  latter  discussed  here  by  Bohr  and  Schrodinger,  and  goes  on  to  sketch  (a  variant 
of)  Dirac's  treatment  of  the  problem, 
a  The  text  here  reads  'proton',  which  is  very  likely  a  misprint,  since  de  Broglie's 
work  indeed  focussed  on  electrons  and  photons. 


138 


Schrddinger's  wave  mechanics 


picture  of  wave  mechanics.  Indeed,  although  Schrodinger  quotes  de  Bro- 
glie  as  the  rediscoverer  of  Hamilton's  optical-mechanical  analogy  (1926h, 
footnote  3  on  p.  1052),  the  two  authors  apply  the  analogy  in  opposite 
directions:  de  Broglie  treats  even  the  photon  as  a  material  particle  with 
a  trajectory,  while  Schrodinger  treats  even  the  electron  as  a  pure  waveB 
As  Schrodinger  writes  in  his  first  paper  on  quantisation,  it  was  in 
particular  'reflection  on  the  spatial  distribution'  of  de  Broglie's  phase 
waves  that  gave  the  impulse  for  the  development  of  his  own  theory  of 
wave  mechanics  (1926b,  p.  372).  We  gain  some  insight  as  to  what  this 
refers  to  from  a  letter  from  Schrodinger  to  Lande  of  16  November  1925: 

I  have  tried  in  vain  to  make  for  myself  a  picture  of  the  phase  wave  of  the  elec- 
tron in  the  Kepler  orbit.  Closely  neighbouring  Kepler  ellipses  are  considered 
as  'rays'.  This,  however,  gives  horrible  'caustics'  or  the  like  for  the  wave  fronts. 
(Quoted  in  Moore  1989,  p.  192) 

Thus,  one  reason  for  Schrodinger  to  abandon  the  idea  of  trajectories 
in  favour  of  the  pure  wave  theory  might  have  been  that  well-behaved 
trajectories  seemed  to  be  incompatible  with  well-behaved  waves.  And  in- 
deed, in  his  presentations  of  the  optical-mechanical  analogy,  Schrodinger 
states  that  outside  of  the  geometric  limit  the  notion  of  'ray'  becomes 
meaningless  (1926b,  pp.  495  and  507, 1926h,  pp.  1052-3).  This  also  seems 
to  be  at  issue  in  the  exchange  between  Schrodinger  and  Lorentz  during 
the  discussion  of  de  Broglie's  report,  where  Schrodinger  points  out  that 
in  cases  of  degeneracy,  any  arbitrary  linear  combination  of  solutions  is 
allowed,  and  de  Broglie's  theory  would  predict  very  complicated  orbits 

There  are  other  aspects  that  could  conceivably  provide  further  reasons 
for  Schrodinger's  definite  abandoning  of  the  trajectories.  One  possibility 
is  that  Schrodinger  picked  up  from  de  Broglie  specifically  the  idea  of 
particles  as  singularities  of  the  waveQ  and  was  happy  to  relax  it  to  the 

a  As  is  clear  from  de  Broglie's  thesis  and  as  mentioned  by  de  Broglie  himself  in 
his  report  (p.  137611 .  de  Broglie  had  always  assumed  the  picture  of  trajectories. 
The  above  quotation  in  any  case  makes  it  clear  that  this  was  Schrodinger's  own 
reading  of  de  Broglie.  Already  as  early  as  January  1926,  Schrodinger  writes  in  his 
gas  theory  paper  about  'the  de  Broglie-Einstein  undulatory  theory  of  corpuscles 
in  motion,  according  to  which  the  latter  are  no  more  than  a  kind  of  "foam  crest" 
["Schammkaum"]  on  the  wave  radiation  that  constitutes  the  world  background 
[Weltgrund]'  (1926a,  p.  95).  Other  indications  that  this  was  well-known  are 
Lorentz's  comments  to  Schrodinger  on  the  construction  of  electron  orbits  in  his 
letter  of  19  June  1926  coming  'close  to  de  Broglie's  arguments'  (Przibram  1967, 
p.  74)  and  Pauli's  reference  to  Einstein's  and  de  Broglie's  'moving  point  masses' 
in  his  letter  to  Jordan  of  12  April  1926  (Pauli  1979,  p.  316). 

a  Cf.  Schrodinger  (1926a,  p.  99):  'The  universal  radiation,  as  "signals"  or  perhaps 
singularities  of  which  the  particles  are  meant  to  occur,  is  thus  something  quite 


4-6  The  conflict  with  matrix  mechanics 


139 


idea  of  wave  packets.  Indeed,  as  we  have  seen  above,  Schrodinger  placed 
great  emphasis  on  the  notion  of  a  wave  packet,  and  if  it  had  been  an 
adequate  notion,  there  would  have  been  no  need  for  a  separate  notion 
of  a  corpuscle  in  order  to  explain  the  particulate  aspects  of  matter. 

We  have  also  seen  that  Schrodinger  was  acutely  aware  of  the  radiation 
problem,  namely  of  the  discrepancy  between  the  orbital  frequency  of  the 
electron  and  the  frequency  of  the  emitted  radiation.  While  de  Broglie  in 
his  thesis  was  able  to  derive  the  Bohr  orbits  from  wave  considerations, 
this  would  in  no  way  seem  to  alleviate  the  problem:  the  frequency  of 
revolution  of  the  electron  in  de  Broglie's  theory  was  the  same  as  in  the 
Bohr  model,  and  would  lead  to  the  wrong  frequency  of  radiation  if  the 
electron  was  treated  as  a  classical  source.  (In  the  case  of  degeneracy 
noted  above,  the  situation  would  be  even  more  complicated,  jf] 

Finally,  Schrodinger  appeared  to  be  critical  of  proposals  combining 
waves  and  particles,  for  instance  as  appeared  to  be  done  by  Born  in 
his  collision  papers  (see  section  l4~3l  above) .  Such  misgivings  could  easily 
have  applied  also  to  de  Broglie's  theory. 


4.6  The  conflict  with  matrix  mechanics 

In  the  early  discussions  on  the  meaning  of  quantum  theory,  the  notion  of 
'Anschaulichkeit'  resurfaces  time  and  again.  The  verb  'anschauen'  means 
'to  look  at',  and  'anschaulich',  which  means  'clear',  'vivid'  or  'intuitive', 
has  visual  connotations  that  the  English  word  'intuitive'  lacks.  Anschau- 
lichkeit of  a  physical  theory  is  thus  a  quality  of  ready  comprehensibility 
that  may  (but  need  noJB)  include  a  strong  component  of  literal  pictu- 
rability.  For  Schrodinger,  at  any  rate,  it  seems  that  the  possibility  of 
grasping  a  theory  through  some  kind  of  spatio-temporal  intuition  was  a 
key  component  of  physical  understanding^ 

It  is  clear,  however,  that  the  conflict  between  wave  mechanics  and 
matrix  or  quantum  mechanics  was  not,  or  not  only,  a  philosophical  issue, 
say  about  the  validity  of  the  concepts  of  spacetime  and  causalityll  and 

essentially  more  complicated  than  for  instance  the  wave  radiation  of  Maxwell's 
theory  ....  ' 

a  Note,  however,  that  de  Broglie  (1924c)  had  discussed  the  solution  of  this  problem 
in  the  correspondence  limit  (i.e.  for  the  case  of  high  quantum  numbers). 

b  Cf.  below  Heisenberg's  use  of  the  term  in  the  uncertainty  paper. 

c  A  good  discussion  of  the  role  the  notion  of  Anschaulichkeit  played  for  Schrodinger 
is  given  by  de  Regt  (1997,  2001),  who  argues  that  Schrodinger's  requirement 
of  Anschaulichkeit  is  derived  indirectly  from  Boltzmann,  and  is  essentially  a 
methodological  requirement  (as  opposed  to  being  a  commitment  to  realism  — 
cf.  also  the  introduction  by  Bitbol  in  Schrodinger  1995,  p.  4  fn.  10). 

d  Note  that  Kant's  conception  of  space  and  time  is  formulated  in  terms  of  what  he 


140 


Schrddinger's  wave  mechanics 


that,  in  the  minds  of  the  parties  involved,  these  issues  were  connected 
with  specifically  scientific  questions^ 

The  list  of  these  questions  is  extensive.  In  his  'equivalence'  paper 
(1926d),  Schrodinger  states  that  mathematical  equivalence  is  not  the 
same  as  physical  equivalence,  in  the  sense  that  two  theories  can  offer 
quite  different  possibilities  for  generalisation  and  further  development  Q 
He  thinks  of  two  problems  in  particular:  first,  the  problem  of  scattering 
(as  mentioned  in  section  l4~3l  above) .  second,  the  problem  of  radiation 
(discussed  in  section  [4~4|.  in  connection  with  which  he  then  describes 
the  idea  of  the  vibrating  charge  density.  The  radiation  problem  in  turn 
links  to  further  issues  at  the  heart  of  the  debate  with  Heisenberg  and 
Bohr  in  particular,  on  whether  there  are  quantum  jumps  or  whether 
the  process  of  radiation  and  the  atomic  transitions  can  be  described  as 
continuous  processes  in  space  and  time.  In  a  sense,  neither  the  issue  of 
scattering  nor  that  of  radiation  resolved  the  debate  in  favour  of  either 
theory:  both  theories  were  modified  or  reinterpreted  in  the  course  of 
these  developments,  even  though  the  result  (statistical  interpretation, 
Copenhagen  interpretation)  was  not  to  Schrodinger's  taste. 

We  shall  now  follow  how  the  conflict  evolved,  from  the  beginnings  to 
the  time  of  the  Solvay  conference,  since  both  sides  developed  considera- 
bly during  the  crucial  period  between  Schrodinger's  first  papers  and  the 
conference. 


4-6.1  Early  days 

At  the  time  of  Schrodinger's  first  two  papers  on  quantisation,  as  we 
have  seen  in  the  previous  chapter,  matrix  mechanics  was  a  theory  that 
rejected  the  notion  of  electron  orbits,  indeed  the  very  possibility  of  a 
spacetime  description,  substituting  the  classical  kinematical  quantities 
with  matrix  quantities;  but  it  kept  the  postulate  of  stationary  states 
and  of  quantum  jumps  between  these  states.  Matrix  mechanics  did  not 
describe  the  stationary  states  individually,  only  collectively,  and  allowed 
one  to  calculate  only  transition  probabilities  for  the  jumps. 

Schrodinger's  first  paper  on  quantisation  (1926b)  contains  only  a  few 
comments  on  the  possible  continuous  picture  of  atomic  transitions,  as 

calls  the  'Anschauungsformen'  (the  'forms  of  intuition'),  so  that  the  discussion  has 
indeed  strong  philosophical  overtones, 
a  This  point  has  been  recently  argued  also  by  Perovic  (2006). 

a  Similarly,  in  the  discussion  after  his  own  report,  Schrodinger  insists  that  finding  a 
physical  interpretation  of  the  theory  is  'indispensable  for  the  further  development 
of  the  theory'  (p.l472t. 


4-6  The  conflict  with  matrix  mechanics 


141 


opposed  to  quantum  jumps.  (But  of  course,  at  this  stage,  he  has  very 
little  to  say  about  the  problem  of  radiation,  in  particular  nothing  about 
intensities.)  The  first  time  he  comments  explicitly  on  the  differences 
between  wave  mechanics  and  quantum  mechanics  is  in  his  second  paper. 
There  he  writes  that  wave  mechanics  offers  a  way  to  interpret 

the  conviction,  more  and  more  coming  to  the  fore  today,  that  first:  one  should 
deny  real  significance  to  the  phase  of  the  electron  motions  in  the  atom;  second: 
that  one  may  not  even  claim  that  the  electron  at  a  certain  time  is  located 
on  one  particular  of  the  quantum  trajectories  distinguished  by  the  quantum 
conditions;  third:  the  true  laws  of  quantum  mechanics  consist  not  in  defi- 
nite prescriptions  for  the  individual  trajectory,  rather  these  true  laws  relate 
through  equations  the  elements  of  the  whole  manifold  of  trajectories  of  a 
system  through,  so  that  apparently  a  certain  interaction  between  the  different 
trajectories  obtains.  (1926c,  pp.  508) 

As  Schrodinger  proceeds  to  say,  these  claims  are  in  contradiction  with 
the  ideas  of  electron  position  and  electron  orbit,  but  should  not  be 
taken  as  forcing  a  complete  surrender  of  spatio-temporal  ideas.  At  the 
time,  the  mathematical  relation  between  wave  mechanics  and  matrix 
mechanics  was  not  yet  clarified,  but  Schrodinger  hopes  there  would  be 
a  well-defined  mathematical  relation  between  the  two,  which  could  then 
complement  each  other.  According  to  Schrodinger,  Heisenberg's  theory 
yields  the  line  intensities,  his  own  offers  the  possibility  of  bridging  the 
micro-macro  gap0  Personally,  he  finds  the  conception  of  emitted  fre- 
quencies as  'beats'  particularly  attractive  and  believes  it  will  provide  an 
anschaulich  understanding  of  the  intensity  formulas  (1926c,  pp.  513-14). 

Within  weeks,  the  relation  between  the  two  theories  was  clarified 
independently  by  Schrodinger  (1926d),  by  Eckart  (1926)  and  by  Pauli, 
in  his  remarkable  letter  to  Jordan  of  12  April  1926  (Pauli  1979,  pp.  315- 
20).  This  is  one  of  the  first  documented  reactions  to  Schrodinger's  new 
work  from  a  physicist  of  the  Copenhagen-Gottingen  school|Bln  it,  Pauli 
emphasises  in  fact  that  in  Schrodinger's  theory  there  are  no  electron 
orbits,  since  trajectories  are  a  concept  belonging  to  the  geometric  limit 
of  the  theory.  Pauli  seems  to  say  that  insofar  as  Schrodinger  provides  a 

a  Schrodinger's  collected  works  (1984)  reproduce  this  and  other  papers  from  Erwin 
and  Anny  Schrodinger's  own  copy  of  the  second  edition  of  Abhandlungen  zur 
Wellenmechanik  (Schrodinger  1928).  In  this  copy  of  the  book,  the  passage  about 
the  micro-macro  bridge  is  underlined. 

b  Ehrenfest  informed  Lorentz  of  the  'equivalence'  result  (and  of  Klein's  (1926) 
theory)  on  5  May  1926,  when  Kramers  reported  them  in  the  colloquium  at  Leiden. 
Ehrenfest  also  mentioned  the  relation  of  this  result  to  Lanczos's  (1927)  work.9As 
noted  above  (footnote  on  p.  I125|l.  by  27  May  Lorentz  had  received  a  copy  of  the 
paper  directly  from  Schrodinger. 


142 


Schrddinger's  wave  mechanics 


description  of  individual  stationary  states,  his  theory  is  not  in  conflict 
with  matrix  mechanics,  since  it  also  does  not  contain  the  concept  of 
electron  orbits0 

The  tone  of  Schrodinger's  remarks  and  of  the  comments  they  elicit 
changes  with  the  equivalence  paper.  In  a  much-quoted  footnote,  Schro- 
dinger  says  he  had  known  of  Heisenberg's  theory  but  was  'scared  away, 
not  to  say  repelled',  by  the  complicated  algebraic  methods  and  the  lack 
of  Anschaulichkeit  (1926d,  p.  735).  On  8  June  1926,  Heisenberg  sends 
Pauli  an  equally  notorious  (but  often  mis-quoted)  comment: 

The  more  I  reflect  on  the  physical  part  of  Schrodinger's  theory,  the  more 
disgusting  [abscheulich]  I  find  it.  Imagine  the  rotating  electron,  whose  charge 
is  distributed  over  the  whole  space  with  its  axis  in  a  fourth  and  fifth  dimension. 
What  Schrodinger  writes  of  the  Anschaulichkeit  of  his  theory  "would  scarcely 
[be]  an  appropriate..."  in  other  words  I  find  it  poppycock  [Mist].  (Pauli  1979, 
p.  328) 

It  seems  clear  that,  according  to  Heisenberg,  it  is  Schrodinger's  claim 
of  Anschaulichkeit  for  his  theory  that  is  ludicrous,  presumably  partly 
because  of  the  spread-out  electron  and  partly  because  the  waves  are  in 
configuration  space@ 


4-6.2  From  Munich  to  Copenhagen 

In  the  summer  of  1926,  Schrodinger  gave  a  series  of  talks  on  wave 
mechanics  in  various  German  universities,  in  particular,  on  21  and  23 
July,  he  talked  in  Munich  at  the  invitation  of  Sommerfeld  and  of  Wien@ 
The  description  of  a  mechanism  for  radiation  elicited  enthusiastic  com- 
ments by  Wien,  but  criticism  from  Sommerfeld  and  from  Heisenberg. 
The  discussion  was  apparently  heated,  and  eventually  identified  a  cru- 
cial experiment  that  would  decide  between  the  idea  of  the  continuous 

a  Pauli  knew  very  early  about  Schrodinger's  paper,  having  been  informed  by 
Sommerfeld,  to  whom  at  Schrodinger's  request  a  copy  of  the  paper  had  been 
forwarded  by  Wien,  the  editor  of  Annalen  der  Physik  (cf.  Pauli  1979,  pp.  278 
and  293).  Pauli's  analysis  in  the  letter  of  12  April  appears  to  be  based  only  on 
Schrodinger's  first  paper  on  quantisation,  although  at  least  the  official  publication 
date  of  the  second  paper  was  6  April  1926.  See  also  the  letters  between  Pauli  and 
Schrodinger  reproduced  in  Pauli  (1979). 

a  Alternatively,  with  a  'fourth  and  fifth  dimension',  Heisenberg  might  conceivably 
be  referring  to  Klein's  five-dimensional  extension  of  Schrodinger's  equation  (Klein 
1926).  As  one  example,  here  is  how  Moore  (1989,  p.  221)  quotes  the  passage:  'The 
more  I  think  of  the  physical  part  of  the  Schrodinger  theory,  the  more  abominable  I 
find  it.  What  Schrodinger  writes  about  Anschaulichkeit  makes  scarcely  any  sense, 
in  other  words  I  think  it  is  bullshit  [Mist]'. 

b  Here  we  follow  mainly  the  account  given  by  Heisenberg  (1946). 


4-6  The  conflict  with  matrix  mechanics 


143 


mechanism  of  radiation  envisaged  in  wave  mechanics  and  the  idea  of 
quantum  jumps.  This  was  incoherent  scattering,  i.e.  the  Raman  effect  (at 
that  time  neither  observed  nor  thus  named) .  According  to  the  quantum 
prediction  (Smekal  1923,  Kramers  and  Heisenberg  1925),  incoherent 
scattering  would  exist  also  for  atoms  in  the  ground  state,  because  the 
atom  could  be  excited  by  the  incident  light.  According  to  Schrodinger 
instead,  the  effect  was  due  to  induced  vibrations  for  the  case  in  which  at 
least  two  atomic  frequencies  were  already  present,  and  so  would  not 
occur  in  the  ground  stateQ  Apparently,  Sommerfeld  and  Heisenberg 
were  'prepared  to  enter  a  bet  for  its  existence,  while  the  experimental 
physicists  were  against  it  and  Schrodinger  took  a  more  wait-and-see 
attitude'  (Heisenberg  1946,  p.  5). 

In  a  letter  to  Pauli  of  28  July,  Heisenberg  gives  other  specific  criticisms 
of  Schrodinger,  for  throwing  overboard  'everything  "quantum  theoreti- 
cal": namely  photoelectric  effect,  Franck  collisions,  Stern-Gerlach  effect 
etc'  (Pauli  1979,  p.  338).  As  a  matter  of  fact,  in  the  letter  to  Wien 
of  25  August  1926,  quoted  above  (section  143]) .  Schrodinger  admitted 
that  he  had  great  conceptual  difficulties  with  the  photoelectric  effect 
(but  see  below  the  discussion  of  Schrodinger,  1929b).  Heisenberg  further 
mentioned  to  Pauli  that,  together  with  Schrodinger  and  Wien,  he  had 
discussed  Wien's  experiments  on  the  decay  of  luminescence  (Wien  1923, 
ch.  XX).  This  was  another  point  where  Schrodinger  thought  wave  me- 
chanics proved  superior  to  matrix  mechanics,  and  Heisenberg  encouraged 
Pauli  to  calculate  and  publish  the  damping  coefficients  for  the  hydrogen 
spectrumB 

Heisenberg  mentions  similar  criticisms  in  his  talk  on  'Quantum  mecha- 
nics', given  at  the  89th  meeting  of  German  Scientists  and  Physicians  in 
Diisseldorf  on  23  September  1926  and  published  in  the  issue  of  5  Novem- 
ber of  Naturwissenschaften  (Heisenberg  1926c).  This  talk  could  be  seen 
as  a  public  response  to  the  claims  that  the  return  to  a  'continuum  theory' 
was  possible.  In  it,  Heisenberg  addresses  in  particular  the  problem  of 
Anschaulichkeit:  according  to  Heisenberg,  the  usual  notions  of  space  and 
time,  and  in  particular  their  application  to  physics  with  the  idea  that 

a  Note  the  implied  inequivalence  of  wave  and  matrix  mechanics  (despite  the 
recent  'equivalence  proofs').  Another  such  possibility  of  experimental  inequivalence 
is  mentioned  in  the  discussion  after  Schrodinger's  report,  with  regard  to  the 
quadrupole  radiation  of  the  atom  (p.  [469}.  Cf.  also  Muller  (1997)  on  the 
inequivalence  of  the  two  theories. 

a  Cf.  Born  and  Heisenberg's  report  (pp.  14321  and  I435~fl .  where  spin  is  considered  to 
be  problematic  for  wave  mechanics,  and  where  it  is  explicitly  stated  that  Dirac 
(1927c)  provides  an  explanation  for  the  decay  experiments. 


144 


Schrddinger's  wave  mechanics 


space  and  matter  are  in  principle  continuously  divisible,  turn  out  to  be 
mistaken,  first  of  all  due  to  the  Unanschaulichkeit  of  the  corpuscular 
nature  of  matter,  then  through  the  theoretical  and  experimental  consi- 
derations leading  to  the  idea  of  stationary  states  and  quantum  jumps 
(Bohr,  Franck-Hertz,  Stern-Gerlach),  and  finally  through  consideration 
of  radiation  phenomena  (Planck's  radiation  formula,  Einstein's  light 
quantum,  the  Compton  effect  and  the  Bothe-Geiger  experiments).  This 
issue,  it  is  claimed,  also  relates  closely  to  the  question  of  the  degree  of 
'reality'  to  be  ascribed  to  material  particles  or  light  quanta.  Quantum 
mechanics  in  its  development  had  thus  first  of  all  to  free  itself  from 
notions  of  Anschaulichkeit,  in  order  to  set  up  a  new  kind  of  kinematics 
and  mechanics.  In  discussing  the  wave  theory,  Heisenberg  considers  first 
de  Broglie  and  Einstein  as  having  developed  wave-particle  dualism  for 
matter  and  having  suggested  the  possibility  of  interference  for  an  en- 
semble [Schar]  of  particles.  He  then  explains  that  Schrodinger  found  a 
differential  equation  for  the  matter  waves  that  reproduces  the  eigenvalue 
problem  of  quantum  (i.e.  matrix)  mechanics.  However,  according  to 
Heisenberg,  the  Schrodinger  theory  fails  to  provide  the  link  with  de 
Broglie's  ideas,  that  is,  it  fails  to  provide  the  analogy  with  light  waves  in 
ordinary  space,  because  of  the  need  to  consider  waves  in  configuration 
space;  the  latter  therefore  have  only  a  formal  significance.  Heisenberg 
refers  to  the  claim  that  on  the  basis  of  Schrodinger's  theory  one  may 
be  able  to  return  to  'a  purely  continuous  description  of  the  quantum 
theoretical  phenomena',  and  continues  (Heisenberg  1926c,  p.  992): 

In  developing  consequently  this  point  of  view  one  leaves  in  fact  the  ground  of 
de  Broglie's  theory,  thus  of  Q.M.  and  indeed  of  all  quantum  theory  and  arrives 
in  my  opinion  at  a  complete  contradiction  with  experience  (law  of  blackbody 
radiation;  dispersion  theory).  This  route  is  thus  not  viable.  The  actual  reality 
of  the  de  Broglie  waves  lies  rather  in  the  interference  phenomena  mentioned 
above,  which  defy  any  interpretation  on  the  basis  of  classical  concepts.  The 
extraordinary  physical  significance  of  Schrodinger's  results  lies  in  the  realisa- 
tion that  an  anschaulich  interpretation  of  the  quantum  mechanical  formulas 
contains  both  typical  features  of  a  corpuscular  theory  and  typical  features  of 
a  wave  theory. 

After  discussing  quantum  statistics  ('which  in  any  case  represents  a 
very  bizarre  further  limiting  of  the  reality  of  the  corpuscles',  p.  992), 
Heisenberg  concludes  (p.  994): 

In  our  anschaulich  interpretation  of  the  physical  processes  and  mathematical 
formulas  there  is  a  dualism  between  wave  theory  and  corpuscular  theory  such 
that  many  phenomena  are  described  most  naturally  by  a  wave  theory  of  light 


4-6  The  conflict  with  matrix  mechanics 


145 


as  well  as  of  matter,  in  particular  interference  and  diffraction  phenomena, 
while  other  phenomena  in  turn  can  be  interpreted  only  on  the  basis  of  the 

corpuscular  theory        The  contradictions  of  the  anschaulich  interpretations 

of  different  phenomena  contained  in  the  current  scheme  are  completely  unsatis- 
factory. For  a  contradiction-free  anschaulich  interpretation  of  the  experiments, 
which  in  themselves  are  indeed  contradiction-free,  some  essential  trait  in  our 
picture  of  the  structure  of  matter  is  currently  still  missing. 

After  the  summer,  Schrodinger  visited  Copenhagen  for  an  intense 
round  of  discussions.  According  to  Heisenberg's  reconstruction  in  Der 
Teil  und  das  Ganze  (Heisenberg  1969),  Schrodinger  argued  with  Bohr 
precisely  about  the  necessity  of  finding  a  mechanism  for  radiation,  while 
Bohr  insisted  that  quantum  jumps  were  necessary  for  the  derivation  of 
Planck's  radiation  law,  as  well  as  being  directly  observable  in  experi- 
ments. Heisenberg  (1946,  p.  6)  states  that  the  discussion  ended  with  the 
recognition  'that  an  interpretation  of  wave  mechanics  without  quantum 
jumps  was  impossible  and  that  the  mentioned  crucial  experiment  [i.e. 
the  Raman  effect]  in  any  case  would  turn  out  in  favour  of  the  quantum 
jumps'EI 

Schrodinger  in  turn  admitted  his  difficulties.  In  a  letter  to  Wien  of 
21  October  1926  (quoted  in  Pauli  1979,  p.  339),  he  wrote:  'It  is  quite 
certain  that  the  position  of  anschaulich  images,  which  de  Broglie  and  I 
take,  has  not  nearly  been  developed  far  enough  to  account  even  just  for 
the  most  important  facts.  And  it  is  downright  probable  that  here  and 
there  a  wrong  path  has  been  taken  that  needs  to  be  abandoned'.  And, 
commenting  in  his  preface  (dated  November  1926)  to  the  first  edition  of 
Abhandlungen  zur  Wellenmechanik  (1926i)  on  the  fact  that  the  papers 
were  being  reprinted  unchanged,  he  invoked  'the  impossibility  at  the 
current  stage  of  giving  an  essentially  more  satisfactory  or  even  definitive 
new  presentation'. 

In  the  meantime,  both  Bohr  and  Heisenbergwere  working  to  find  their 
own  satisfactory  interpretation  of  the  theorylj  In  particular  as  regards 
Heisenberg,  the  correspondence  with  Pauli  is  very  tellingE)  First  of  all 
one  finds  the  discussion  of  Born's  collision  papers  (Born  1926a, b),  which 
led  to  Heisenberg's  paper  on  fluctuation  phenomena  (Heisenberg  1926b). 
As  already  mentioned  in  section  [3.4. 5\  Heisenberg  then  reports  to  Pauli 

a  The  well-known  quotation  'If  this  damned  quantum  jumping  is  indeed  to  stay, 
then  I  regret  having  worked  on  this  subject  at  all'  is  reported  both  in  Heisenberg 
(1946)  and  Heisenberg  (1969). 

b  See  also  section  HOI  above. 

c  As  noted  in  Pauli  (1979,  p.  339  and  fn.  3  on  p.  340),  however,  most  of  Pauli's 
letters  to  Heisenberg  from  this  period  appear  to  have  been  destroyed  in  the  war. 


146 


Schrddinger's  wave  mechanics 


about  Dirac's  transformation  theory  (Dirac  1927a),  which,  however,  is 
seen  only  as  an  extraordinary  formal  development.  The  next  letters 
from  Heisenberg  to  Pauli  are  from  February  1927  and  include  on  23 
February  the  sketch  of  the  ideas  of  the  uncertainty  paper  (Pauli  1979, 
pp.  376-81).  This,  as  was  Bohr's  simultaneous  development  of  the  idea  of 
complementarity,  was  meant  to  provide  the  anschaulich  picture  that  was 
still  missing.  Indeed,  in  the  uncertainty  paper,  Heisenberg  (1927,  p.  172) 
formulates  Anschaulichkeit  as  the  possibility  of  arriving  at  qualitative 
predictions  in  simple  cases  together  with  formal  consistency.  With  the 
formulation  and  application  of  the  uncertainty  relations,  he  was  then 
satisfied  to  have  found  such  an  interpretation. 

In  a  sense,  however,  the  uncertainty  paper  was  also  the  end  of  the 
original  notion  of  'quantum  jumps'  as  transitions  between  stationary 
states  of  a  system.  Indeed,  as  had  to  be  the  case  given  the  generalisation 
of  transition  probabilities  to  arbitrary  pairs  of  observables  (and  as  was 
implied  in  the  Heisenberg-Pauli  correspondence),  the  privileged  role  of 
stationary  states  had  to  give  way.  It  is  somewhat  ironic  that  Heisenberg 
was  to  give  up  quantum  jumps  only  a  few  months  after  the  discussions 
with  Schrodinger  in  Copenhagen;  nevertheless,  quantum  mechanics  thus 
wedded  to  probabilistic  transitions  between  measurements  was  just  as 
discontinuous  as  the  picture  of  quantum  jumps  between  stationary  states 
that  it  replaced,  and,  for  Schrodinger,  it  was  equally  unsatisfactory. 

Note  that,  for  Bohr  at  least,  wave  aspects  played  a  crucial  role  in 
the  resulting  'Copenhagen'  interpretation.  Yet,  just  as  in  the  case  of 
Born's  (1926a, b)  use  of  wave  mechanics  in  the  discussion  of  collisions 
(see  section  [3.4. 4p.  Heisenberg  appears  to  have  been  convinced  that  the 
apparent  wave  aspects  could  be  interpreted  entirely  in  matrix  terms. 
This  difference  of  opinion  was  reflected  in  the  sometimes  tense  discussi- 
ons between  Heisenberg  and  Bohr  at  the  time,  in  particular  on  the  topic 
of  Heisenberg's  treatment  of  the  7-ray  microscope  in  the  uncertainty 
paper  and  the  corresponding  addendum  in  proofjfj 

4-6.3  Continuity  and  discontinuity 

Between  late  1926  and  the  time  of  the  Solvay  conference,  Schrodinger 
continued  to  work  along  lines  that  brought  out  the  attractive  features 
—  and  sometimes  the  limitations  —  of  the  wave  picture.  In  late  1926 
and  early  1927,  Schrodinger  focussed  on  the  'four-dimensional'  theory, 

a  For  more  on  this  issue,  see  Beller  (1999,  pp.  71-4  and  138-41)  and  Camilleri  (2006). 
For  Heisenberg's  way  out  of  the  difficulty,  see  Heisenberg  (1929,  pp.  494-5). 


4-6  The  conflict  with  matrix  mechanics 


147 


with  his  papers  on  the  Compton  effect  (1927a),  and  on  the  energy- 
momentum  tensor  (1927b),  while  he  returned  to  the  'many-dimensional' 
theory  shortly  before  the  Solvay  conference,  with  his  work  on  energy  ex- 
change (1927c)  and  the  treatment  of  the  many-electron  atom  presented 
in  his  report. 

The  Compton  effect  is  of  course  a  paradigmatic  example  of  a  'disconti- 
nuous' phenomenon,  but  Schrodinger  (1927a)  gives  it  a  wave  mechanical 
treatment,  by  analogy  with  the  classical  case  of  reflection  of  a  light  wave 
when  it  encounters  a  sound  wave  (Brillouin  1922)@  As  he  remarks  in  the 
paper,  and  as  remarked  in  the  discussion  after  Compton's  report,  this 
treatment  relies  on  the  consideration  of  stationary  waves  and  does  not 
directly  describe  an  individual  Compton  collision^ 

The  paper  on  the  energy-momentum  tensor  (1927b),  following  Gordon 
(1926),  takes  the  Lagrangian  approach  to  deriving  the  Klein-Gordon 
equation,  and  varies  also  the  electromagnetic  potentials,  thus  deriving 
the  Maxwell  equations  as  well.  Schrodinger  then  considers  in  particu- 
lar the  energy-momentum  tensor  of  the  combined  Maxwell  and  Klein- 
Gordon  fields.  As  he  remarks  (Schrodinger  1928,  p.  x),  this  is  a  beautiful 
formal  development  of  the  theory,  but  it  heightens  starkly  the  difficulties 
with  the  four-dimensional  view,  since  one  cannot  insert  the  electromag- 
netic potentials  thus  obtained  back  into  the  Klein-Gordon  equation.  For 
instance,  including  the  self-field  of  the  electron  in  the  treatment  of  the 
hydrogen  atom  would  yield  the  wrong  results,  as  Schrodinger  also  menti- 
ons in  section  II  of  his  report.  In  this  connection,  Schrodinger  states  that: 
'The  exchange  of  energy  and  momentum  between  the  electromagnetic 
field  and  "matter"  does  not  in  reality  take  place  in  a  continuous  way, 
as  the  [given]  fieldlike  expression  sugg  ests'  (1927b,  p.  271)0  According 
to  Heisenberg  (1929),  the  further  development  of  the  four-dimensional 
theory  was  indeed  purely  formal,  but  provided  a  basis  for  the  later 


development  of  quantum  field  theoryjj 

The  paper  on  energy  exchange  (1927c),  Schrodinger's  last  paper  before 

a  Schrodinger  had  given  a  derivation  of  Brillouin's  result  by  assuming  that  energy 
and  momentum  were  exchanged  in  the  form  of  quanta  (1924a).  In  the  paper  on 
the  Compton  effect  he  now  comments  on  how,  in  a  sense,  he  is  reversing  his  own 
earlier  reasoning. 

b  See  in  particular  the  remarks  by  Pauli  (p.  1363 ll  and  the  discussion  following 

Schrodinger's  contribution  fp.l369ll.  Cf.  also  the  closing  paragraph  of  Pauli's  letter 

to  Schrodinger  of  12  December  1927  (Pauli  1979,  p.  366). 
c  See  again  the  exchange  of  letters  between  Pauli  and  Schrodinger  in  December  1926 

(Pauli  1979,  pp.  364-8). 
d  Heisenberg  (1930b)  incorporates  into  his  view  of  quantum  theory  both  the 

multi-dimensional  theory  and  the  four-dimensional  theory  of  Schrodinger's  report. 

The  latter  is  interpreted  as  a  classical  wave  theory  of  matter  that  forms  the 


148 


Schrddinger's  wave  mechanics 


the  Solvay  conference,  marks  an  attempt  to  meet  the  criticism  that  wave 
mechanics  cannot  account  for  crucial  phenomena  involving  'quantum 
jumps'.  Following  Dirac  (1926c),  Schrodinger  sketches  the  method  of 
the  variation  of  constants,  which  he  is  to  use  also  in  the  discussion 
of  the  many-electron  atom  in  his  Solvay  report.  He  then  applies  it  to 
the  system  of  two  atoms  in  resonance  discussed  by  Heisenberg  (1926b) 
(and  by  Jordan  (1927a)).  As  discussed  in  section  f3T4l  Heisenberg  uses 
this  example  to  show  how  in  matrix  mechanics  one  can  indeed  describe 
change  starting  from  first  principles,  in  particular  how  one  can  deter- 
mine the  probabilities  for  quantum  jumps.  Now  Schrodinger  turns  the 
tables  around  and  argues  that  the  treatment  of  atoms  in  resonance  using 
wave  mechanics  shows  how  one  can  eliminate  quantum  jumps  from  the 
picture.  He  argues  that  the  two  atoms  exchange  energies  as  if  they 
were  exchanging  definite  quanta.  Indeed,  he  goes  further  and  suggests 
that  the  idea  of  quantised  energy  itself  should  be  reinterpreted  in  terms 
of  wave  frequency^  and  that  resonance  phenomena  are  indeed  the  key 
to  the  'quantum  postulates'.  Schrodinger  then  proceeds  to  formulate 
statistical  considerations  about  the  distributions  of  the  amplitudes  of 
the  two  systems  in  resonance,  leading  to  the  idea  of  the  squares  of  the 
amplitudes  as  measures  of  the  strength  of  excitation  of  an  eigenvalue.  He 
then  returns  to  resonance  considerations  in  the  case  of  a  system  coupled 
to  a  heat  bath,  which  he  considers  would  suffice  in  principle  for  the 
derivation  of  Planck's  radiation  formula  and  of  all  the  results  of  the  'old 
quantum  statistics'. 

In  the  aftermath  of  the  Solvay  conference,  although  in  places  one 
finds  Schrodinger  at  least  temporarily  espousing  views  much  closer  to 
those  of  the  Copenhagen-Gottingen  school  (cf.  Moore  1989,  pp.  250-51), 
Schrodinger  continued  to  explore  the  possibilities  of  the  wave  pictured 
The  following  is  a  telling  example.  In  a  short  paper  in  Naturwissen- 
schaften,  Schrodinger  (1929b)  proposes  to  illustrate  'how  the  quantum 
theory  in  its  newest  phase  again  makes  use  of  continuous  spacetime 
functions,  indeed  of  properties  of  their  form,  to  describe  the  state  and 
behaviour  of  a  system  ....'  (p.  487).  Schrodinger  quotes  the  example  of 

background  for  a  second  quantisation,  and  includes  the  backreaction  of  the 
self-field  via  inclusion  in  the  potential  (cf.  also  above,  fn.  on  p.113211. 

a  Schrodinger  had  expressed  the  idea  of  energy  as  frequency  already  in  his  letter  to 
Wien  of  25  August  1926:  'What  we  call  the  energy  of  an  individual  electron  is  its 
frequency.  Basically  it  does  not  move  with  a  certain  speed  because  it  has  received 
a  certain  "shove",  but  because  a  dispersion  law  holds  for  the  waves  of  which  it 
consists,  as  a  consequence  of  which  a  wave  packet  of  this  frequency  has  exactly 
this  speed  of  propagation'  (as  quoted  in  Moore  1989,  p.  225). 

a  Cf.  also  Bitbol's  introduction  in  Schrodinger  (1995),  p.  5. 


4-6  The  conflict  with  matrix  mechanics 


149 


how  photochemical  and  photoelectric  phenomena  depend  on  the  form 
of  an  impinging  wave  (i.e.  on  its  Fourier  decomposition),  rather  than 
on  local  properties  of  the  wave  at  the  point  where  it  impinges  on  the 
relevant  system.  He  argues  that  a  continuous  picture  can  be  retained,  but 
introduces  the  idea  (which,  as  he  remarks,  generalises  without  difficulty 
to  the  case  of  many-particle  wave  functions)  that  the  crucial  properties 
of  wave  functions  are  in  fact  properties  pertaining  to  the  entire  wave. 
Schrodinger  may  thus  have  been  the  first  to  introduce  the  idea  of  non- 
localisable  properties,  as  part  of  the  price  to  pay  in  order  to  pursue  a 
wave  picture  of  matter. 


150 


Notes  to  pp.  124-141 


Archival  notes 

1  Ehrenfest  to  Lorentz,  30  March  1926,  AHQP-LTZ-11  (in  German). 

2  Schrodinger  to  Lorentz,  30  March  1926,  AHQP-LTZ-8  (in  German). 

3  Verschaffelt  to  Lefebure,  8  April  1926,  IIPCS  2573  (in  French). 

4  Lorentz  to  Einstein,  6  April  1926,  AHQP-86  (in  German). 

5  Lorentz  to  Schrodinger,  21  January  1927,  AHQP-41,  section  9  (in 
German). 

6  Schrodinger  to  Lorentz,  23  June  1927,  AHQP-LTZ-13  (original  with 
Schrodinger's  corrections)  and  AHQP-41,  section  9  (carbon  copy)  (in 
German). 

7  See  also  Schrodinger  to  Lorentz,  16  July  1927,  AHQP-LTZ-13  (in 
German). 

8  Schrodinger  to  Lorentz,  23  June  1926,  AHQP-LTZ-8  (in  German). 

9  Ehrenfest  to  Lorentz,  5  May  1926,  AHQP-EHR-23  (in  German). 


Part  II 

Quantum  foundations  and  the  1927  Solvay 

conference 


5 

Quantum  theory  and  the  measurement 
problem 


5.1  What  is  quantum  theory? 

For  much  of  the  twentieth  century,  it  was  widely  believed  that  the 
interpretation  of  quantum  theory  had  been  essentially  settled  by  Bohr 
and  Heisenberg  in  1927.  But  not  only  were  the  'dissenters'  of  1927  —  in 
particular  de  Broglie,  Einstein,  and  Schrodinger  —  unconvinced  at  the 
time:  similar  dissenting  points  of  view  are  not  uncommon  even  today. 
What  Popper  called  'the  schism  in  physics'  (Popper  1982)  never  really 
healed.  Soon  after  1927  it  became  standard  to  assert  that  matters  of 
interpretation  had  been  dealt  with,  but  the  sense  of  puzzlement  and 
paradox  surrounding  quantum  theory  never  disappeared. 

As  the  century  wore  on,  many  of  the  concerns  and  alternative  view- 
points expressed  in  1927  slowly  but  surely  revived.  In  1952,  Bohm  re- 
vived and  extended  de  Broglie's  theory  (Bohm  1952a, b),  and  in  1993 
the  de  Broglie-Bohm  theory  finally  received  textbook  treatment  as  an 
alternative  formulation  of  quantum  theory  (Bohm  and  Hiley  1993;  Hol- 
land 1993).  In  1957,  Everett  (1957)  revived  Schrodinger's  view  that  the 
wave  function,  and  the  wave  function  alone,  is  real  (albeit  in  a  very 
novel  sense),  and  the  resulting  'Everett'  or  'many-worlds'  interpreta- 
tion (DeWitt  and  Graham  1973)  gradually  won  widespread  support, 
especially  among  physicists  interested  in  quantum  gravity  and  quantum 
cosmology.  Theories  even  closer  to  Schrodinger's  ideas  —  collapse  theor- 
ies, with  macroscopic  objects  regarded  as  wave  packets  whose  spreading 
is  prevented  by  stochastic  collapse  —  were  developed  from  the  1970s 
onwards  (Pearle  1976,  1979;  Ghirardi,  Rimini  and  Weber  1986).  As  for 
Einstein's  concerns  in  1927  about  the  nonlocality  of  quantum  theory  (see 
chapter[7j),  re-expressed  in  the  famous  EPR  paper  of  1935,  matters  came 
to  a  head  in  1964  with  the  publication  of  Bell's  theorem  (Bell  1964).  In 


153 


154  Quantum  theory  and  the  measurement  problem 

the  closing  decades  of  the  twentieth  century,  after  many  stringent  expe- 
rimental tests  showed  that  Bell's  inequality  was  violated  by  entangled 
quantum  states,  nonlocality  came  to  be  widely  regarded  as  a  central  fact 
of  the  quantum  world. 

Other  concerns,  voiced  by  Schrodinger  just  a  few  years  after  the 
fifth  Solvay  conference,  also  eventually  played  a  central  role  after  deca- 
des of  obscurity.  Schrodinger's  'cat  paradox'  of  1935  came  to  dominate 
discussions  about  the  meaning  of  quantum  theory.  And  the  peculiar 
'entanglement'  that  Schrodinger  had  highlighted  as  a  key  difference 
between  classical  and  quantum  physics  (Schrodinger  1935)  eventually 
found  its  place  as  a  central  concept  in  quantum  information  theory:  as 
well  as  being  a  matter  of  'philosophical'  concern,  entanglement  came  to 
be  seen  as  a  physical  resource  to  be  exploited  for  technological  purposes, 
and  as  a  central  feature  of  quantum  physics  that  had  been  strangely 
under-appreciated  for  most  of  the  twentieth  century. 

The  interpretation  of  quantum  theory  is  probably  as  controversial 
now  as  it  ever  has  been.  Many  workers  now  recognise  that  standard 
quantum  theory  —  centred  as  it  is  around  the  notion  of  'measurement' 
—  requires  a  classical  background  (containing  macroscopic  measuring 
devices),  which  can  never  be  sharply  defined,  and  which  in  principle  does 
not  even  exist.  Even  so,  the  operational  approach  to  the  interpretation  of 
quantum  physics  is  still  being  pursued  by  some,  in  terms  of  new  axioms 
that  constrain  the  structure  of  quantum  theory  (Hardy  2001,  2002; 
Clifton,  Bub  and  Halvorson  2003).  On  the  other  hand,  those  who  do 
regard  the  background  problem  as  crucial  tend  to  assert  that  everything 
in  the  universe  —  microscopic  systems,  macroscopic  equipment,  and  even 
human  experimenters  —  should  in  principle  be  described  in  a  unified 
manner,  and  that  'measurement'  processes  must  be  regarded  as  physical 
processes  like  any  other.  Approaches  of  this  type  include:  the  Everett 
interpretation  (Everett  1957),  which  is  being  subjected  to  increasing 
scrutiny  at  a  foundational  level  (Saunders  1995,  1998;  Deutsch  1999; 
Wallace  2003a, b);  the  pilot- wave  theory  of  de  Broglie  and  Bohm  (de 
Broglie  1928;  Bohm  1952a,b;  Bohm  and  Hiley  1993;  Holland  1993),  which 
is  being  pursued  and  developed  more  than  ever  before  (Cushing,  Fine 
and  Goldstein  1996;  Pearle  and  Valentini  2006;  Valentini  2007);  collapse 
models  (Pearle  1976,  1979,  1989;  Ghirardi,  Rimini  and  Weber  1986), 
which  are  being  subjected  to  ever  more  stringent  experimental  tests 
(Pearle  and  Valentini  2006);  and  theories  of  'consistent'  or  'decoherent' 
histories  (Griffiths  1984,  2002;  Gell-Mann  and  Hartle  1990;  Hartle  1995; 
Omnes  1992,  1994). 


5.2  The  measurement  problem  today 


155 


Today,  it  is  simply  untenable  to  regard  the  views  of  Bohr  and  Heisen- 
berg  (which  in  any  case  differed  considerably  from  each  other)  as  in  any 
sense  standard  or  canonical.  The  meaning  of  quantum  theory  is  today 
an  open  question,  arguably  as  much  as  it  was  in  October  1927. 

5.2  The  measurement  problem  today 

The  problem  of  measurement  and  the  observer  is  the 
problem  of  where  the  measurement  begins  and  ends,  and 

where  the  observer  begins  and  ends        I  think,  that  — 

when  you  analyse  this  language  that  the  physicists  have 
fallen  into,  that  physics  is  about  the  results  of 
observations  —  you  find  that  on  analysis  it  evaporates, 
and  nothing  very  clear  is  being  said. 

J.  S.  Bell  (1986,  p.  48) 

The  recurring  puzzlement  over  the  meaning  of  quantum  theory  often 
centres  around  a  group  of  related  conceptual  questions  that  usually  come 
under  the  general  heading  of  the  'measurement  problem'. 

5.2.1  A  fundamental  ambiguity 

As  normally  presented  in  textbooks,  quantum  theory  describes  experi- 
ments in  a  way  that  is  certainly  practically  successful,  but  seemingly  fun- 
damentally ill-defined.  For  it  is  usually  implicitly  or  explicitly  assumed 
that  there  is  a  clear  boundary  between  microscopic  quantum  systems 
and  macroscopic  classical  apparatus,  or  that  there  is  a  clear  dividing 
line  between  'microscopic  indefiniteness'  and  the  definite  states  of  our 
classical  macroscopic  realm.  Yet,  such  distinctions  defy  sharp  and  precise 
formulation. 

That  quantum  theory  is  therefore  fundamentally  ambiguous  was  argued 
with  particular  clarity  by  Bell.  For  example  (Bell  1986,  p.  54): 

The  formulations  of  quantum  mechanics  that  you  find  in  the  books  involve 
dividing  the  world  into  an  observer  and  an  observed,  and  you  are  not  told 
where  that  division  comes  —  on  which  side  of  my  spectacles  it  comes,  for 
example  —  or  at  which  end  of  my  optic  nerve. 

The  problem  being  pointed  to  here  is  the  lack  of  a  precise  boundary 
between  the  quantum  system  and  the  rest  of  the  world  (including  the 
apparatus  and  the  experimenter). 

A  closely-related  aspect  of  the  'measurement  problem'  is  the  need  to 
explain  what  happens  to  the  definite  states  of  the  everyday  macroscopic 


156 


Quantum  theory  and  the  measurement  problem 


domain  as  one  goes  to  smaller  scales.  Where  does  macroscopic  defini- 
teness  give  way  to  microscopic  indefiniteness?  Does  the  transition  occur 
somewhere  between  pollen  grains  and  macromolecules,  and  if  so,  where? 
On  which  side  of  the  line  is  a  virus? 

Nor  can  quantum  'indefiniteness'  or  'fuzziness'  be  easily  confined  to 
the  atomic  level.  For  macroscopic  objects  are  made  of  atoms,  and  so 
inevitably  one  is  led  to  doubt  whether  rocks,  trees,  or  even  the  Moon, 
have  definite  macroscopic  states,  especially  when  observers  are  not  pre- 
sent. And  this  in  the  face  of  remarkable  developments  in  twentieth- 
century  astrophysics  and  cosmology,  which  have  traced  the  origins  of 
stars,  galaxies,  helium  and  the  other  elements,  to  times  long  before 
human  observers  existed. 

The  notion  of  a  'real  state  of  affairs'  is  familiar  from  everyday  expe- 
rience: for  example,  the  location  and  number  of  macroscopic  bodies  in 
a  laboratory.  Science  has  shown  that  there  is  more  to  the  real  state  of 
things  than  is  immediately  obvious  (for  example,  the  electromagnetic 
field).  Further,  it  has  been  shown  that  the  character  of  the  real  state 
of  things  changes  with  scale:  on  large  scales  we  find  planets,  stars  and 
galaxies,  while  on  small  scales  we  find  pollen  grains,  viruses,  molecules, 
and  atoms.  Nevertheless,  at  least  outside  of  the  quantum  domain,  the 
notion  of  'real  state'  remains.  The  ambiguity  emphasised  by  Bell  consists 
of  the  lack  of  a  sharp  boundary  between  the  'classical'  domain,  in  which 
'real  state'  is  a  valid  concept,  and  the  'quantum  domain',  in  which  'real 
state'  is  not  a  valid  concept. 

Despite  decades  of  effort,  this  ambiguity  remains  unresolved  within 
standard  textbook  quantum  theory,  and  many  critics  have  been  led 
to  argue  that  the  notion  of  real  state  should  be  extended,  in  some 
appropriate  way,  into  the  quantum  domain.  Thus,  for  example,  Bell 
(1987,  pp.  29-30): 

Theoretical  physicists  live  in  a  classical  world,  looking  out  into  a  quantum- 
mechanical  world.  The  latter  we  describe  only  subjectively,  in  terms  of  proce- 
dures and  results  in  our  classical  domain.  This  subjective  description  is  effected 

by  means  of  quantum-mechanical  state  functions  ip           The  classical  world 

of  course  is  described  quite  directly  —  'as  it  is'  Now  nobody  knows  just 

where  the  boundary  between  the  classical  and  quantum  domain  is  situated  

A  possibility  is  that  we  find  exactly  where  the  boundary  lies.  More  plausible  to 
me  is  that  we  will  find  that  there  is  no  boundary.  It  is  hard  for  me  to  envisage 
intelligible  discourse  about  a  world  with  no  classical  part  —  no  base  of  given 
events  ....  to  be  correlated.  On  the  other  hand,  it  is  easy  to  imagine  that  the 
classical  domain  could  be  extended  to  cover  the  whole. 


5.2  The  measurement  problem  today 


157 


While  Bell  goes  on  to  argue  in  favour  of  adding  extra  ('hidden') 
parameters  to  the  quantum  formalism,  for  our  purposes  the  key  point 
being  made  here  is  the  need  to  extend  the  notion  of  real  state  into 
the  microscopic  domain.  This  might  indeed  be  achieved  by  introducing 
hidden  variables,  or  by  other  means  (for  example,  the  Everett  approach). 
Whatever  form  the  theory  may  take,  the  real  macroscopic  states  con- 
sidered in  the  rest  of  science  should  be  part  of  a  unified  description 
of  microscopic  and  macroscopic  phenomena  —  what  Bell  (1987,  p.  30) 
called  'a  homogeneous  account  of  the  world'. 

There  are  in  fact,  as  we  have  mentioned,  several  well-developed  pro- 
posals for  such  a  unified  or  homogeneous  (or  'realist')  account  of  the 
world:  the  pilot- wave  theory  of  de  Broglie  (1928)  and  Bohm  (1952a, b); 
theories  of  dynamical  wave-function  collapse  (Pearle  1976,  1979,  1989; 
Ghirardi,  Rimini  and  Weber  1986);  and  the  many- worlds  interpretation 
of  Everett  (1957).  The  available  proposals  that  have  broad  scope  assume 
that  the  wave  function  is  a  real  object  that  is  part  of  the  structure  of 
an  individual  system.  At  the  time  of  writing,  it  is  not  known  if  realist 
theories  may  be  constructed  without  this  feature@ 


5.2.2  Measurement  as  a  physical  process:  quantum  theory 

'without  observers' 

Another  closely- related  aspect  of  the  measurement  problem  is  the  questi- 
on of  how  quantum  theory  may  be  applied  to  the  process  of  measurement 
itself.  For  it  seems  inescapable  that  it  should  be  possible  (in  principle) 
to  treat  apparatus  and  observers  as  physical  systems,  and  to  discuss  the 
process  of  measurement  in  purely  quantum-theoretical  terms.  However, 
attempts  to  do  so  are  notoriously  controversial  and  apt  to  result  in 
paradox  and  confusion. 

For  example,  in  the  paradox  of  Wigner's  friend'  (Wigner  1961),  an 
experimenter  A  (Wigner)  possesses  a  box  containing  an  experimenter  B 
(his  friend)  and  a  microscopic  system  S.  Suppose  S  is  initially  in,  for 
example,  a  superposition  of  energy  states 

|Vo)  =  ^=  (|£a)  +  \E2)) 

a  For  example,  acording  to  the  stochastic  hidden-variables  theory  of  Fenyes  (1952) 
and  Nelson  (1966),  the  wave  function  merely  provides  an  emergent  description  of 
probabilities.  However,  despite  appearances,  it  seems  that  for  technical  reasons  this 
theory  is  flawed  and  does  not  really  reproduce  quantum  theory:  the  Schrodinger 
equation  is  obtained  only  for  exceptional  (nodeless)  wave  functions  (Wallstrom 
1994;  Pearle  and  Valentini  2006). 


158 


Quantum  theory  and  the  measurement  problem 


and  that  the  whole  box  is  initially  in  a  state  \Hfo)  =  \Bo) <S>\'>po)  (idealising 
B  as  initially  in  a  pure  state  \Bq}).  Let  B  perform  an  ideal  energy 
measurement  on  S.  If  A  does  not  carry  out  any  measurement,  then  from 
the  point  of  view  of  A  the  quantum  state  of  the  whole  box  evolves  con- 
tinuously (according  to  the  Schrodinger  equation)  into  a  superposition 
of  states 

|*(t))  =  -J=  (l-Bi)  ®  \Ei)  +  \B2)  ®  \E2))  (1) 

(where  \Bi)  is  a  state  such  that  B  has  found  the  energy  value  Ei). 

Now,  if  A  wished  to,  could  he  (in  principle)  at  later  times,  by  ap- 
propriate experiments  on  the  whole  box,  observe  interference  effects 
involving  both  branches  of  the  superposition  in  ([J)?  If  so,  could  this 
be  consistent  with  the  point  of  view  of  B,  according  to  which  the  energy 
measurement  had  a  definite  result? 

One  may  well  question  whether  the  above  scenario  is  realistic,  even 
in  principle  (given  the  resources  in  our  universe).  For  example,  one 
might  question  whether  a  box  containing  a  human  observer  could  ever 
be  sufficiently  isolated  for  environmental  decoherence  to  be  negligible. 
However,  if  the  above  'experimenter  B'  were  replaced  by  an  automatic 
device  or  machine,  the  scenario  may  indeed  become  realistic,  depending 
on  the  possibility  of  isolating  the  box  to  sufficient  accuracy|f| 

Most  scientists  agree  that  macroscopic  equipment  is  subject  to  the 
laws  of  physics,  just  like  any  other  system,  and  that  it  should  be  possible 
to  describe  the  operation  of  such  equipment  purely  in  terms  of  the  most 
fundamental  theory  available.  There  is  somewhat  less  consensus  over  the 
status  of  human  experimenters  as  physical  systems.  Some  physicists  have 
suggested,  in  the  context  of  quantum  physics,  that  human  beings  cannot 
be  treated  as  just  another  physical  system,  and  that  human  conscious- 
ness plays  a  special  role.  For  example,  Wigner  (1961)  concluded  from  his 
paradox  that  'the  being  with  a  consciousness  must  have  a  different  role 
in  quantum  mechanics  than  the  inanimate  measuring  device',  and  that 
for  a  system  containing  a  conscious  observer  'the  quantum  mechanical 
equations  of  motion  cannot  be  linear'. 

Wigner's  conclusion,  that  living  beings  violate  quantum  laws,  seems 
increasingly  incredible  given  the  impressive  progress  made  in  human 
biology  and  neuroscience,  in  which  the  human  organism  —  including 
the  brain  —  is  treated  as  (ultimately)  a  complex  electro-chemical  sy- 

a  It  is  perhaps  worth  remarking  that,  even  if  decoherence  has  a  role  to  play  here, 
one  has  to  realise  what  the  problem  is  in  order  to  understand  whether  and  how 
decoherence  might  contribute  to  a  solution  (cf.  Bacciagaluppi  2005). 


5.2  The  measurement  problem  today 


159 


stem.  There  is  no  evidence  that  human  beings  are  able  to  violate,  for 
example,  the  laws  of  gravity,  or  of  thermodynamics,  or  basic  principles  of 
chemistry,  and  the  conclusion  that  human  beings  in  particular  should  be 
outside  the  domain  of  quantum  laws  seems  difficult  to  accept.  An  alter- 
native conclusion,  of  course,  is  that  something  is  missing  from  orthodox 
quantum  theory. 

Assuming,  then,  that  human  experimenters  and  their  equipment  may 
in  principle  be  regarded  as  physical  systems  subject  to  the  usual  laws, 
their  interaction  with  microsystems  ought  to  be  analysable,  and  the 
process  of  measurement  ought  to  be  treatable  as  a  physical  process  like 
any  other.  One  can  then  ask  if,  over  an  ensemble  of  similar  experiments, 
it  would  be  possible  in  principle  for  the  external  experimenter  A  to 
observe  (at  the  statistical  level)  interference  effects  associated  with  both 
terms  in  ((J).  To  deny  this  possibility  would  be  to  claim  (with  Wigner) 
that  a  box  containing  a  human  being  violates  the  laws  of  quantum 
theory.  To  accept  the  possibility  would  seem  to  imply  that,  at  time 
t  before  experimenter  A  makes  a  measurement,  there  was  (at  least 
according  to  A)  no  matter  of  fact  about  the  result  of  B's  observation, 
notwithstanding  the  explicit  supposition  that  B  had  indeed  carried  out 
an  observation  by  time  t. 

It  is  sometimes  said  that  Wigner's  paradox  may  be  evaded  by  noting 
that,  if  the  external  experimenter  A  actually  performs  an  experiment  on 
the  whole  box  that  reveals  interference  between  the  two  branches  of  ([I]) , 
then  this  operation  will  destroy  the  memory  the  internal  experimenter 
B  had  of  obtaining  a  particular  result,  so  that  there  is  no  contradiction. 
But  this  misses  the  point.  For  while  it  is  true  that  B  will  then  not  have 
any  memory  of  having  obtained  a  particular  experimental  result,  the 
contradiction  remains  with  there  being  a  purported  matter  of  fact  (at 
time  t)  as  to  the  result  of  B's  observation,  regardless  of  whether  or  not 
B  has  subsequently  forgotten  it.  (Note  that  in  this  discussion  we  are 
talking  about  matters  of  fact,  not  for  microsystems,  but  for  macroscopic 
experimental  results.) 

Let  us  examine  the  reasoning  behind  Wigner's  paradox  more  closely. 
We  take  it  that  experimenter  B  agreed  beforehand  to  enter  the  box 
and  perform  an  energy  measurement  on  the  microscopic  system  S;  and 
that  it  was  further  agreed  that  after  sufficient  time  had  elapsed  for  B 
to  perform  the  measurement,  A  would  decide  whether  or  not  to  carry 
out  an  experiment  showing  interference  between  the  two  branches  of  (HJ . 
Considering  an  ensemble  of  similar  experiments,  the  paradox  consists  of 


160  Quantum  theory  and  the  measurement  problem 

a  contradiction  between  the  following  statements  concerning  the  physical 
state  of  B  just  before  A  decides  what  to  do: 

(I)  There  is  no  definite  state  of  B,  because  A  can  if  he  wishes  perform 
measurements  showing  the  presence  of  interference  between  different 
states  of  B. 

(II)  There  is  a  definite  state  of  B,  because  B  is  a  human  experimenter  like 
any  other,  and  because  instead  of  testing  for  interference  A  can  simply 
ask  B  what  he  saw. 

The  argument  in  (I)  is  the  familiar  one  from  standard  quantum  theory, 
applied  to  the  unusual  case  of  a  box  containing  an  experimenter.  The 
argument  in  (II)  is  unusual:  it  requires  comment  and  elaboration. 

Because  B  is  a  human  experimenter  like  any  other,  we  are  driven 
to  consider  the  theoretical  possibility  that,  in  the  distant  future,  some 
'super-experimenter'  could  decide  to  perform  an  interference  experiment 
on  a  'box'  containing  us  and  our  equipment.  What  would  happen  to  our 
current  (macroscopically-recorded)  experimental  facts  —  concerning  for 
example  the  outcome  of  a  spin  measurement  performed  in  the  laborato- 
ry? To  be  sure,  our  records  of  these  experiments  could  one  day  be  erased, 
but  it  would  be  illogical  to  suppose  that  the  fact  of  these  experiments 
having  been  carried  out  (with  definite  results)  could  ever  be  changed. 
Unless  we  accept  (II) ,  we  are  in  danger  of  encountering  the  paradox  that 
facts  about  what  we  have  done  in  the  laboratory  today  might  later  turn 
out  not  to  be  facts. 

Further  support  for  (II)  comes  from  Wigner's  original  argument,  which 
centred  around  the  assumed  reality  of  other  minds.  (Wigner  did  not  re- 
gard solipsism  as  worthy  of  serious  consideration.)  From  this  assumption 
Wigner  inferred  that,  whatever  the  circumstances,  if  one  asks  a  'friend' 
what  he  saw,  the  answer  given  by  the  friend  must  have  been,  as  Wigner 
put  it,  'already  decided  in  his  mind,  before  I  asked  him'.  But  then,  if 
A  decides  not  to  perform  an  interference  experiment  on  the  box,  and 
simply  asks  B  what  he  saw,  A  is  obliged  to  take  B's  answer  as  indicative 
of  the  state  of  B's  mind  before  A  asked  the  question  —  indeed,  before 
A  decided  on  whether  or  not  to  perform  an  interference  experiment.  For 
Wigner,  a  superposition  of  the  form  U)  is  unacceptable  for  a  system 
containing  a  human  experimenter  or  'friend',  because  it  implies  that  the 
friend  'was  in  a  state  of  suspended  animation  before  he  answered  my 
question'. 

As  Wigner  presented  it,  the  argument  is  based  on  the  assumption  that 


5.2  The  measurement  problem  today 


161 


a  conscious  being  will  always  have  a  definite  state  of  consciousness.  In 
orthodox  quantum  theory,  of  course,  one  might  dismiss  as  'meaningless' 
the  question  of  whether  the  friend's  consciousness  contained  one  impres- 
sion or  the  other  (B\  or  B2)  before  he  was  asked.  However,  as  Wigner 
put  it,  'to  deny  the  existence  of  the  consciousness  of  a  friend  to  this 
extent  is  surely  an  unnatural  attitude,  approaching  solipsism'. 

Finally,  on  the  topic  of  Wigner's  paradox,  it  is  important  to  emphasise 
the  distinction  between  'matters  of  fact'  on  the  one  hand,  and  'memories' 
(true  or  false)  on  the  other  —  a  distinction  that  is  comparable  to  the 
distinction  between  facts  and  opinions,  or  between  truth  and  belief,  or 
between  reality  and  appearance,  distinctions  that  form  part  and  parcel 
of  the  scientific  method.  Thus,  again,  while  an  experimenter's  memory 
of  having  obtained  a  certain  result  might  be  erased  in  the  future,  the 
fact  that  he  once  obtained  a  certain  result  will  necessarily  remain  a  fact: 
to  assert  otherwise  would  be  a  logical  contradiction. 

A  further,  more  subtle  motivation  for  treating  measurement  as  a  physi- 
cal process  comes  from  considering  the  very  nature  of  'measurement'.  As 
is  well  known  to  philosophers,  and  to  experimental  physicists,  the  process 
of  measurement  is  'theory-laden'.  That  is,  in  order  to  know  how  to 
carry  out  a  measurement  correctly,  or  how  to  design  a  specific  measuring 
apparatus  correctly,  some  prior  body  of  theory  is  required:  in  particular, 
one  needs  some  understanding  of  how  the  equipment  functions,  and 
how  it  interacts  with  the  system  being  examined.  For  this  reason,  it 
is  difficult  to  see  how  the  process  of  quantum  measurement  can  be 
properly  understood,  without  some  prior  body  of  theory  that  describes 
the  equipment  itself  and  its  interaction  with  the  'system'.  And  since 
the  equipment  usually  belongs  to  the  definite  macroscopic  realm,  and 
the  'system'  often  does  not,  a  proper  understanding  seems  to  require  a 
'homogeneous  account  of  the  world'  as  discussed  above,  that  is,  a  theory 
in  which  an  objective  account  is  provided  not  only  of  the  macroscopic 
apparatus,  but  also  of  the  microsystem  and  its  interaction  with  the 
apparatus. 

A  common  conclusion,  then,  is  that  a  coherent  account  of  quantum 
measurement  requires  that  quantum  theory  be  somehow  extended  from  a 
theory  of  microsystems  to  a  universal  physical  theory  with  an  unbounded 
domain  of  application,  with  our  everyday  macroscopic  realism  being 
somehow  extended  to  the  microscopic  level.  Given  such  a  well-defined 
and  universal  physical  theory,  whose  subject  matter  consists  of  the  real 
states  of  the  world  as  a  whole,  it  would  be  possible  in  principle  to  use  the 
theory  to  analyse  the  process  of  measurement  as  a  physical  process  like 


162  Quantum  theory  and  the  measurement  problem 

any  other  (just  as,  for  example,  classical  electrodynamics  may  be  used 
to  analyse  the  process  —  involving  forces  exerted  by  magnetic  fields  — 
by  which  an  ammeter  measures  an  electric  current). 

Thus,  for  example,  pilot-wave  theory,  or  the  Everett  interpretation,  or 
collapse  models,  may  be  applied  to  situations  where  a  quantum  measu- 
rement is  taking  place.  If  the  theory  provides  an  unambiguous  account 
of  objective  processes  in  general,  it  will  provide  an  unambiguous  ac- 
count of  the  quantum  measurement  process  in  particular.  The  result  is 
a  quantum  theory  'without  observers',  in  the  sense  that  observers  are 
physical  systems  obeying  the  same  laws  as  all  other  systems,  and  do  not 
have  to  be  added  to  the  theory  as  extra-physical  elements. 

Conclusions  as  to  what  is  actually  happening  during  quantum  meas- 
urements will,  of  course,  depend  on  the  details  of  the  theory.  For  ex- 
ample, consider  again  Wigner's  scenario  above.  In  the  Everett  inter- 
pretation, B's  observation  within  the  box  has  two  results,  and  there  is 
no  contradiction  if  the  external  experimenter  A  subsequently  observes 
interference  between  them.  In  de  Broglie-Bohm  theory,  B's  observation 
has  only  one  result  selected  by  the  actual  configuration,  but  even  so 
the  empty  wave  packet  still  exists  in  configuration  space,  and  can  in 
principle  re-overlap  with  (and  hence  interfere  with)  the  occupied  packet 
if  appropriate  Hamiltonians  are  applied. 

5.2.3  Quantum  cosmology 

Further  closely-related  questions,  again  broadly  under  the  heading  of 
the  'measurement  problem',  concern  the  description  of  the  distant  past 
before  human  beings  and  other  life  forms  evolved  on  Earth,  and  indeed 
the  description  of  the  universe  as  a  whole  in  epochs  before  life  existed. 

While  the  basic  theoretical  foundations  of  big-bang  cosmology  had  al- 
ready been  laid  by  1927  (through  the  work  of  Friedmann  and  Lemaitre), 
at  that  time  any  suggestion  of  the  need  to  provide  a  quantum-theoretical 
account  of  the  early  universe  could  easily  have  been  dismissed  as  being 
of  no  practical  or  experimental  import.  By  the  1980s,  however,  with 
the  development  of  inflationary  cosmology  (Guth  1981),  the  theoretical 
question  became  a  practical  one,  with  observational  implications. 

According  to  our  current  understanding,  the  small  non-uniformities  of 
temperature  observed  in  the  cosmic  microwave  background  originated 
from  classical  density  perturbations  in  the  early  (and  approximately 
homogenous)  universe  (Padmanabhan  1993).  And  according  to  inflatio- 
nary theory,  those  early  classical  density  perturbations  originated  from 


5.2  The  measurement  problem  today 


163 


quantum  fluctuations  at  even  earlier  times  (Liddle  and  Lyth  2000).  Here 
we  have  an  example  of  a  cosmological  theory  in  which  a  'quantum-to- 
classical  transition'  occurred  long  before  life  (or  even  galaxies)  developed, 
and  whose  details  have  left  an  imprint  on  the  sky  that  can  be  measured 
today.  This  is  the  measurement  problem  on  a  cosmic  scale  (Kiefer, 
Polarski  and  Starobinsky  1998;  Perez,  Sahlmann  and  Sudarsky  2006; 
Valentini  2006). 

But  the  tension  between  'Copenhagen'  quantum  theory  and  the  re- 
quirements of  cosmology  was  felt  long  before  cosmology  matured  as  an 
experimental  science.  Thus,  for  example,  in  his  pioneering  work  in  the 
1960s  on  quantum  gravity,  when  it  came  to  applying  the  theory  to  a 
closed  universe  DeWitt  wrote  (DeWitt  1967,  p.  1131): 

The  Copenhagen  view  depends  on  the  assumed  a  priori  existence  of  a  classical 
level  to  which  all  questions  of  observation  may  ultimately  be  referred.  Here, 
however,  the  whole  universe  is  the  object  of  inspection;  there  is  no  classical 
vantage  point,  and  hence  the  interpretation  question  must  be  re-argued  from 
the  beginning. 

DeWitt  went  on  to  argue  (pp.  1140-2)  that,  in  the  absence  of  a  classical 
level,  the  Everett  interpretation  should  be  adopted.  According  to  DeWitt 
(p.  1141): 

Everett's  view  of  the  world  is  a  very  natural  one  to  adopt  in  the  quantum 
theory  of  gravity,  where  one  is  accustomed  to  speak  without  embarrassment 
of  the  'wave  function  of  the  universe'. 

While  DeWitt  expresses  a  preference  for  the  Everett  interpretation,  for 
our  purposes  the  central  point  being  made  is  that,  if  the  whole  universe 
is  treated  as  a  quantum  object,  with  no  definite  (classical)  background 
'to  which  all  questions  of  observation  may  ultimately  be  referred',  then 
the  physics  becomes  unintelligible  unless  some  form  of  real  state  (or 
ontology)  is  ascribed  to  the  quantum  object.  The  Everett  interpretation 
provides  one  way,  among  others,  to  do  thisQ 

Everett  himself,  in  1957,  had  already  cited  the  quantum  theory  of 
cosmology  as  one  of  his  main  motivations  for  going  beyond  what  he  cal- 
led the  'conventional  or  "external  observation"  formulation  of  quantum 
mechanics'  (Everett  1957,  p.  454).  Everett's  general  motivation  was  the 
need  to  describe  the  quantum  physics  internal  to  an  isolated  system,  in 

a  Everett's  original  formulation  was  of  course  open  to  a  number  of  criticisms, 
in  particular  concerning  the  notion  of  'world'  and  the  idea  of  probability. 
Such  criticisms  are  arguably  being  met  only  through  more  recent  developments 
(Saunders  1995,  1998;  Deutsch  1999;  Wallace  2003a,b). 


164 


Quantum  theory  and  the  measurement  problem 


particular  one  containing  observers.  A  closed  universe  was  a  special  case 
of  such  a  system,  and  one  that  arguably  would  have  to  be  considered 
as  the  science  of  cosmology  progressed  (as  has  indeed  proved  to  be  the 
case).  Thus  Everett  wrote  (p.  455): 

How  is  one  to  apply  the  conventional  formulation  of  quantum  mechanics  to  the 
space-time  geometry  itself?  The  issue  becomes  especially  acute  in  the  case  of 
a  closed  universe.  There  is  no  place  to  stand  outside  the  system  to  observe  it. 

There  is  nothing  outside  it  to  produce  transitions  from  one  state  to  another  

No  way  is  evident  to  apply  the  conventional  formulation  of  quantum  mechanics 
to  a  system  that  is  not  subject  to  external  observation.  The  whole  interpretive 
scheme  of  that  formalism  rests  upon  the  notion  of  external  observation.  The 
probabilities  of  the  various  possible  outcomes  of  the  observation  are  prescribed 
exclusively  by  Process  1  [discontinuous  wave  function  collapse]. 

In  more  recent  years,  similar  concerns  have  motivated  the  development 
of  a  'generalised  quantum  mechanics'  based  on  'consistent'  or  'decohe- 
rent'  histories  (Griffiths  1984,  2002;  Gell-Mann  and  Hartle  1990;  Hartle 
1995;  Omnes  1992,  1994),  an  approach  that  is  also  supposed  to  provide 
a  quantum  theory  'without  observers',  and  without  a  presumed  classical 
background,  so  as  to  be  applicable  to  quantum  cosmology. 


5.2-4  The  measurement  problem  in  'statistical' 
interpretations  of  tp 

The  measurement  problem  is  often  posed  simply  as  the  problem  of  how  to 
interpret  a  macroscopic  superposition  of  quantum  states,  such  as  (pure) 
states  of  Schrodinger's  cat.  This  way  of  posing  the  measurement  problem 
can  be  misleading,  however,  as  it  usually  rests  on  the  implicit  assumption 
(or  suggestion)  that  the  quantum  wave  function  tp  is  a  real  physical 
object  identifiable  as  a  complete  description  of  an  individual  system.  It 
might  be  that  tp  is  indeed  a  real  object,  but  not  a  complete  description 
(as  in  pilot- wave  theory).  Or,  tp  might  not  be  a  real  object  at  all.  Here 
we  focus  on  the  latter  possibility. 

The  quantum  wave  function  tp  might  be  merely  a  mathematical  tool 
for  calculating  and  predicting  the  measured  frequencies  of  outcomes 
over  an  ensemble  of  similar  experiments.  In  which  case,  it  would  be 
immediately  wrong  to  interpret  a  mathematical  superposition  of  terms 
in  tp  as  somehow  corresponding  to  a  physical  superposition  of  real  states 
for  individual  systems,  and  the  'measurement  problem'  in  the  limited 
sense  just  mentioned  would  be  a  pseudo-problem.  This  'statistical  in- 


5.2  The  measurement  problem  today 


165 


terpretation'  of  quantum  theory  has  been  championed  in  particular  by 
Ballentine  (1970). 

However,  even  in  the  statistical  interpretation,  the  'measurement  pro- 
blem' in  the  more  general  sense  remains.  For  quantum  theory  is  then 
an  incomplete  theory  that  refers  only  to  ensembles,  and  simply  does 
not  fully  describe  individual  quantum  systems  or  their  relation  to  real, 
individual  macroscopic  states.  The  statistical  interpretation  gives  no 
account  of  what  happens,  for  example,  when  an  individual  electron  is 
being  measured:  it  talks  only  about  the  distribution  of  (macroscopically- 
registered)  measurement  outcomes  over  an  ensemble  of  similar  experi- 
ments. Nor  does  the  statistical  interpretation  provide  any  sharp  delinea- 
tion of  the  boundary  between  'macroscopic'  objects  with  an  individual 
(non-ensemble)  description  and  'microscopic'  objects  with  no  such  des- 
criptionB 

In  the  statistical  interpretation,  then,  a  solution  of  the  measurement 
problem  in  the  general  sense  will  require  the  development  of  a  complete 
description  of  individual  systems.  This  was  Einstein's  point  of  view 
(Einstein  1949,  pp.  671-2): 

The  attempt  to  conceive  the  quantum-theoretical  description  as  the  complete 
description  of  the  individual  systems  leads  to  unnatural  theoretical  interpreta- 
tions, which  become  immediately  unnecessary  if  one  accepts  the  interpretation 
that  the  description  refers  to  ensembles  of  systems  and  not  to  individual  sy- 
stems [I]t  appears  unavoidable  to  look  elsewhere  for  a  complete  description 

of  the  individual  system  

Einstein  was  arguably  the  founder  of  the  statistical  interpretation^ 
It  should  be  noted,  however,  that  while  Einstein's  conclusion  about  the 
nature  of  ip  might  turn  out  to  be  correct,  what  seems  to  have  been  his 
main  argument  for  this  conclusion  now  appears  to  be  wrong,  in  that  it 
was  based  on  what  now  appears  to  be  a  false  premise  —  the  assumption 
of  locality.  For  example,  in  a  letter  to  his  friend  Michele  Besso,  dated  8 
October  1952,  Einstein  argued  that  the  'quantum  state'  V  could  not  be 
a  complete  characterisation  of  the  'real  state'  of  an  individual  system, 
on  the  following  grounds: 

A  system  S12,  with  known  function  ipi2,  is  composed  of  subsystems  Si  and 
S2,  which  at  time  t  are  far  away  from  each  other.  If  one  makes  a  'complete' 

a  There  are  different  ways  of  considering  a  'statistical'  interpretation,  depending 
on  one's  point  of  view  concerning  the  nature  of  probability.  In  any  case,  the 
'measurement  problem'  in  the  general  sense  still  stands. 

b  Cf.  Ballentine  (1972). 


166 


Quantum  theory  and  the  measurement  problem 


measurement  on  Si,  this  can  be  done  in  different  ways    Prom  the  measu- 
rement result  and  the  i/'-function  t/j12,  one  can  determine  ....  the  i/>-function 
ip2  of  the  second  system.  This  will  take  on  different  forms,  according  to  the 
kind  of  measurement  applied  to  Si. 

But  this  is  in  contradiction  with  assumption  (1)  [that  the  quantum  state 
characterises  the  real  state  completely],  if  one  excludes  action  at  a  distance. 
Then  in  fact  the  measurement  on  Si  can  have  no  influence  on  the  real  state  of 
&,  and  therefore  according  to  (1)  can  have  also  no  influence  on  the  quantum 
state  of  &  described  by  ip2-  (Einstein  and  Besso  1972,  pp.  487-8,  emphasis  in 
the  original) 

Einstein's  argument  hinges  on  the  fact  that,  in  a  local  physics,  the 
measurement  made  on  Si  can  have  no  effect  on  the  real  state  of  S2  E 

With  the  development  of  Bell's  theorem,  however,  it  seems  to  be 
beyond  reasonable  doubt  that  quantum  physics  is  not  local  (if  one 
assumes  the  absence  of  backwards  causation  or  of  many  worlds) .  For  if 
locality  is  assumed,  one  may  use  the  EPR  argument  to  infer  determinism 
for  the  outcomes  of  quantum  measurements  at  widely-separated  wings 
of  an  entangled  statellj  Following  further  reasoning  by  Bell  (1964),  one 
may  then  show  that  any  local  and  deterministic  completion  of  quantum 
theory  cannot  reproduce  quantum  correlations  for  all  measurements 
on  entangled  states.  Therefore,  locality  contradicts  quantum  theoryEI 
Because  the  premise  of  Einstein's  argument  contradicts  quantum  theory, 
the  argument  cannot  be  used  to  infer  anything  about  quantum  theory 
or  about  the  nature  of  ip.  Thus,  Einstein's  argument  does  not  establish 
the  'statistical'  or  'ensemble'  nature  of  V'B 


a  The  notion  of  locality  that  Einstein  uses  here  is,  to  be  precise,  a  combination  of 
the  principles  of  'separability'  (that  widely-separated  systems  have  locally-defined 
real  states)  and  of  'no  action  at  a  distance'.  Cf.  Howard  (1990). 

b  'It  is  important  to  note  that  ....  determinism  ....  in  the  EPR  argument  ....  is  not 

assumed  but  inferred  [from  locality]  It  is  remarkably  difficult  to  get  this  point 

across,  that  determinism  is  not  a  presupposition  of  the  analysis'  (Bell  1987,  p.  143, 
italics  in  the  original). 

c  See,  however,  Fine  (1999)  for  a  dissenting  view. 

d  Einstein's  argument  above  has  recently  been  revived  by  Fuchs  (2002)  (who  is, 
however,  not  explicit  about  the  completeness  or  incompleteness  of  quantum 
theory).  Fuchs  states  (p.  9)  that  Einstein  'was  the  first  person  to  say  in  absolutely 
unambiguous  terms  why  the  quantum  state  should  be  viewed  as  information  .... 
.  His  argument  was  simply  that  a  quantum-state  assignment  for  a  system  can  be 
forced  to  go  one  way  or  the  other  by  interacting  with  a  part  of  the  world  that 
should  have  no  causal  connection  with  the  system  of  interest'.  Fuchs  then  quotes 
at  length  (p.  10)  the  above  letter  by  Einstein.  Later  in  the  same  paper,  Fuchs 
writes  (p.  39):  'Recall  what  I  viewed  to  be  the  most  powerful  argument  for  the 
quantum  state's  subjectivity  —  the  Einsteinian  argument  of  [the  above  letter]. 
Since  [for  entangled  systems]  we  can  toggle  the  quantum  state  from  a  distance,  it 
must  not  be  something  sitting  over  there,  but  rather  something  sitting  over  here: 
It  can  only  be  our  information  about  the  far-away  system'.  Again,  the  premise 


5.2  The  measurement  problem  today 


167 


of  this  Einsteinian  argument  -  locality  -  is  nowadays  no  longer  reasonable  (as  of 
course  it  was  in  1952),  and  so  the  argument  cannot  be  used  to  infer  the  subjective 
or  epistemic  nature  of  the  quantum  state. 


6 


Interference,  superposition,  and  wave 
packet  collapse 


6.1  Probability  and  interference 

According  to  Feynman  (1965,  chap.  1,  p.  1),  single-particle  interference 
is  'the  only  mystery'  of  quantum  theory.  Feynman  considered  an  expe- 
riment in  which  particles  are  fired,  one  at  a  time,  towards  a  screen  with 
two  holes  labelled  1  and  2.  With  both  holes  open,  the  distribution  Pyi 
of  particles  at  the  backstop  displays  an  oscillatory  pattern  of  bright  and 
dark  fringes.  If  P\  is  the  distribution  with  only  hole  1  open,  and  P2  is 
the  distribution  with  only  hole  2  open,  then  experimentally  it  is  found 
that  P12  7^  Pi  +  Pi.  According  to  the  argument  given  by  Feynman  (as 
well  as  by  many  other  authors),  this  result  is  inexplicable  by  'classical' 
reasoning. 

By  his  presentation  of  the  two-slit  experiment  (as  well  as  by  his  devel- 
opment of  the  path- integral  formulation  of  quantum  theory) ,  Feynman 
popularised  the  idea  that  the  usual  probability  calculus  breaks  down  in 
the  presence  of  quantum  interference,  where  it  is  probability  amplitudes 
(and  not  probabilities  themselves)  that  are  to  be  added.  As  pointed 
out  by  Koopman  (1955),  and  by  Ballentine  (1986),  this  argument  is 
mistaken:  the  probability  distributions  at  the  backstop  —  P12,  Pi  and  P2 
—  are  conditional  probabilities  with  three  distinct  conditions  (both  slits 
open,  one  or  other  slit  closed),  and  probability  calculus  does  not  imply 
any  relationship  between  these.  Feynman's  argument  notwithstanding, 
standard  probability  calculus  is  perfectly  consistent  with  the  two-slit 
experiment. 

In  his  influential  lectures  on  physics,  as  well  as  asserting  the  breakdown 
of  probability  calculus,  Feynman  claimed  that  no  theory  with  particle 
trajectories  could  explain  the  two-slit  experiment.  This  claim  is  still 


168 


6.1  Probability  and  interference  169 

found  in  many  textbooksQ  From  a  historical  point  of  view,  it  is  remar- 
kable indeed  that  single-particle  interference  came  to  be  widely  regarded 
as  inconsistent  with  any  theory  containing  particle  trajectories:  for  as 
we  have  seen  in  chapter  [21  in  the  case  of  electrons  this  phenomenon  was 
in  fact  first  predicted  (by  de  Broglie)  on  the  basis  of  precisely  such  a 
theory. 

As  we  shall  now  discuss,  in  his  report  at  the  fifth  Solvay  conference 
de  Broglie  gave  a  clear  and  simple  explanation  for  single-particle  interfe- 
rence on  the  basis  of  his  pilot- wave  theory;  and  the  extensive  discussions 
at  the  conference  contain  no  sign  of  any  objection  to  the  consistency  of 
de  Broglie's  position  on  this  point. 

As  for  Schrodinger's  theory  of  wave  mechanics,  in  which  particles  were 
supposed  to  be  constructed  out  of  localised  wave  packets,  in  retrospect  it 
is  difficult  to  see  how  single-particle  interference  could  have  been  accoun- 
ted for.  It  is  then  perhaps  not  surprising  that,  in  Brussels  in  1927,  no 
specific  discussion  of  interference  appears  in  Schrodinger's  contributions. 

Born  and  Heisenberg,  on  the  other  hand,  do  discuss  interference  in 
their  report,  from  the  point  of  view  of  their  'quantum  mechanics'.  And, 
they  do  consider  the  question  of  the  applicability  of  probability  calculus. 
The  views  they  present  are,  interestingly  enough,  rather  different  from 
the  views  usually  associated  with  quantum  mechanics  today.  In  particu- 
lar, as  we  shall  see  below,  according  to  Born  and  Heisenberg  there  was 
(in  a  very  specific  sense)  no  conflict  between  quantum  interference  and 
the  ordinary  probability  calculus. 

Interference  was  also  considered  in  the  general  discussion,  in  particular 
by  Dirac  and  Heisenberg:  this  latter  material  will  be  discussed  later,  in 
section  16.31 

6.1.1  Interference  in  de  Broglie's  pilot-wave  theory 

At  the  fifth  Solvay  conference,  the  subject  of  interference  was  addressed 
from  a  pilot-wave  perspective  by  de  Broglie  in  his  report.  In  his  section 
5,  'The  interpretation  of  interference',  de  Broglie  considered  interference 
experiments  with  light  of  a  given  frequency  v.  For  a  guiding  wave  W 
of  phase  4>  and  amplitude  a,  de  Broglie  took  the  photon  velocity  to  be 

a  For  example,  Shankar  (1994)  discusses  the  two-slit  experiment  at  length  in  his 
chapter  3,  and  claims  (p.  Ill)  that  the  observed  single-photon  interference  pattern 
'completely  rules  out  the  possibility  that  photons  move  in  well-defined  trajectories'. 
Further,  according  to  Shankar  (p.  112):  'It  is  now  widely  accepted  that  all  particles 
are  described  by  probability  amplitudes  ip(x),  and  that  the  assumption  that  they 
move  in  definite  trajectories  is  ruled  out  by  experiment'. 


170  Interference,  superposition,  and  collapse 

2 

given  by  v  =  —  j^V<p,  while  the  probability  distribution  was  taken  to  be 
7r  =  const -a2.  As  de  Broglie  had  pointed  out,  the  latter  distribution  is 
preserved  over  time  by  the  assumed  motion  of  the  photons.  Therefore, 
the  usual  interference  and  diffraction  patterns  follow  immediately.  To 
quote  de  Broglie  (p.  [384j): 

the  bright  and  dark  fringes  predicted  by  the  new  theory  will  coincide  with 
those  predicted  by  the  old  [that  is,  by  classical  wave  optics]. 

De  Broglie  also  pointed  out  that  his  theory  gave  the  correct  bright  and 
dark  fringes  for  photon  interference  experiments,  regardless  of  whether 
the  experiments  were  performed  with  an  intense  or  a  very  feeble  source. 
As  he  put  it  (p.  1553)1: 

one  can  do  an  experiment  of  short  duration  with  intense  irradiation,  or  an 
experiment  of  long  duration  with  feeble  irradiation  ....  if  the  light  quanta  do 
not  act  on  each  other  the  statistical  result  must  evidently  be  the  same. 

De  Broglie's  discussion  here  addresses  precisely  the  supposed  difficulty 
highlighted  much  later  by  Feynman.  It  is  noteworthy  that  a  clear  and 
simple  answer  to  what  Feynman  thought  was  'the  only  mystery'  of 
quantum  mechanics  was  published  as  long  ago  as  the  1920s. 

Even  so,  for  the  rest  of  the  twentieth  century,  the  two-slit  experiment 
was  widely  cited  as  proof  of  the  non-existence  of  particle  trajectories 
in  the  quantum  domain.  Such  trajectories  were  thought  to  imply  the 
relation  Pi2  =  Pi  +  P2,  which  is  violated  by  experiment.  As  Feynman 
(1965,  chap.  1,  p.  6)  put  it,  on  the  basis  of  this  argument  it  should 
'undoubtedly'  be  concluded  that:  'It  is  not  true  that  the  electrons  go 
either  through  hole  1  or  hole  2'.  Feynman  also  suggested  that,  by  1965, 
there  had  been  a  long  history  of  failures  to  explain  interference  in  terms 
of  trajectories: 

Many  ideas  have  been  concocted  to  try  to  explain  the  curve  for  P12  [that 
is,  the  interference  pattern]  in  terms  of  individual  electrons  going  around  in 
complicated  ways  through  the  holes.  None  of  them  has  succeeded.  (Feynman 
1965,  chap.  1,  p.  6) 

Yet,  de  Broglie's  construction  is  so  simple  as  to  be  almost  trivial:  the 
quantum  probability  density  |^|2  for  particle  position  obeys  a  continuity 
equation,  with  a  local  probability  current;  if  the  trajectories  follow  the 
flow  lines  of  the  quantum  current  then,  by  construction,  an  incident 
distribution  \ip0\2  of  particles  will  necessarily  evolve  into  a  distribution 
|-0|2  at  the  backstop  —  with  interference  or  diffraction,  as  the  case  may 
be,  depending  on  the  potential  in  which  the  wave  -0  evolves. 


6.1  Probability  and  interference 


171 


Not  only  did  Feynman  claim,  wrongly,  that  no  one  had  ever  succee- 
ded in  explaining  interference  in  terms  of  trajectories;  he  also  gave  an 
argument  to  the  effect  that  any  such  explanation  was  impossible: 

Suppose  we  were  to  assume  that  inside  the  electron  there  is  some  kind  of 
machinery  that  determines  where  it  is  going  to  end  up.  That  machine  must 
also  determine  which  hole  it  is  going  to  go  through  on  its  way.  But  ....  what 
is  inside  the  electron  should  not  be  dependent  ....  upon  whether  we  open  or 
close  one  of  the  holes.  So  if  an  electron,  before  it  starts,  has  already  made  up 
its  mind  (a)  which  hole  it  is  going  to  use,  and  (b)  where  it  is  going  to  land, 
we  should  find  Pi  for  those  electrons  that  have  chosen  hole  1,  P2  for  those 
that  have  chosen  hole  2,  and  necessarily  the  sum  Pi  +P2  for  those  that  arrive 
through  the  two  holes.  There  seems  to  be  no  way  around  this.  (Feynman  1965, 
chap.  1,  p.  10) 

Feynman's  argument  assumes  that  the  motion  of  the  electron  is  unaffec- 
ted by  opening  or  closing  one  of  the  holes.  This  assumption  is  violated 
in  pilot-wave  theory,  where  the  form  of  the  guiding  wave  behind  the 
two-slit  screen  does  depend  on  whether  or  not  both  slits  are  open. 

A  similar  assumption  is  made  in  the  discussion  of  the  two-slit  expe- 
riment by  Heisenberg  (1962),  in  chapter  III  of  his  book  Physics  and 
Philosophy.  Heisenberg  considers  single  photons  incident  on  a  screen 
with  two  small  holes  and  a  photographic  plate  on  the  far  side,  and  gives 
the  familiar  argument  that  the  existence  of  particle  trajectories  implies 
the  non-interfering  result  P\  +  Pi.  As  Heisenberg  puts  it: 

If  [a  single  photon]  goes  through  the  first  hole  and  is  scattered  there,  its 
probability  for  being  absorbed  at  a  certain  point  of  the  photographic  plate 
cannot  depend  upon  whether  the  second  hole  is  closed  or  open.  (Heisenberg 
1962) 

This  assertion  is  denied  by  pilot-wave  theory,  which  provides  a  simple 
counterexample  to  Heisenberg's  conclusion  that  'the  statement  that  any 
light  quantum  must  have  gone  either  through  the  first  or  through  the 
second  hole  is  problematic  and  leads  to  contradictions'. 

Finally,  we  note  that  interference  was  also  considered  by  Brillouin 
(pp.  14011  ff.)  in  the  discussion  following  de  Broglie's  report,  for  the  case 
of  photons  reflected  by  a  mirror.  Brillouin  drew  a  figure  (p.  I403[l .  with 
a  sketch  of  a  photon  trajectory  passing  through  an  interference  region. 
To  our  knowledge,  plots  of  trajectories  in  cases  of  interference  did  not 
appear  again  in  the  literature  until  the  pioneering  numerical  work  by 
Philippidis,  Dewdney  and  Hiley  (1979). 


172 


Interference,  superposition,  and  collapse 


6.1.2  Interference  in  the  'quantum  mechanics '  of  Born  and 

Heisenberg 

The  subject  of  interference  was  considered  by  Born  and  Heisenberg,  in 
their  report  on  quantum  mechanics  (pp.  14231  f.).  for  the  case  of  an  atom 
initially  in  a  superposition 


of  energy  states  |n),  with  coefficients  c„(0)  =  |c„(0)|  e17"  and  eigenvalues 
En.  The  Schrodinger  equation  implies  a  time  evolution 


with  (in  modern  notation)  Snrn(t)  =  (n\  U(t,0)  |m),  where  U(t,0)  is  the 
evolution  operator.  In  the  special  case  where  cm(0)  =  Smk  for  some  k,  we 
have  |c„(i)|2  =  \Snk(t)\2,  and  Born  and  Heisenberg  interpret  \Snk{t)\2  as 
a  transition  probability.  They  also  draw  the  conclusion  that  'the  |c„(t)|2 
must  be  the  state  probabilities'  (p.  1423ft , 

Born  and  Heisenberg  seem  to  adopt  a  statistical  interpretation,  accor- 
ding to  which  the  system  is  always  in  a  definite  energy  state,  with  jump 
probabilities  IS^fi)!2  and  occupation  (or  'state')  probabilities  |c„(t)|2 
(cf.  section  13.4. 6ft.  This  is  stated  quite  explicitly  (p.  1422ft: 

Prom  the  point  of  view  of  Bohr's  theory  a  system  can  always  be  in  only  one 

quantum  state         According  to  Bohr's  principles  it  makes  no  sense  to  say 

a  system  is  simultaneously  in  several  states.  The  only  possible  interpretation 
seems  to  be  statistical:  the  superposition  of  several  eigensolutions  expresses 
that  through  the  perturbation  the  initial  state  can  go  over  to  any  other 
quantum  state   

Note  that  this  is  quite  different  from  present-day  quantum  mechanics,  in 
which  a  system  described  by  the  superposition  Jl])  would  not  normally 
be  regarded  as  always  occupying  only  one  energy  state. 

At  the  same  time,  Born  and  Heisenberg  recognise  a  difficulty  (p.  1423ft: 

Here,  however,  one  runs  into  a  difficulty  of  principle  that  is  of  great  importance, 
as  soon  as  one  starts  from  an  initial  state  for  which  not  all  the  c„(0)  except 
one  vanish. 

The  difficulty,  of  course,  is  that  for  an  initial  superposition  the  final 
probability  distribution  is  given  by 


(1) 


n 


(2) 


(3) 


m 


6.1  Probability  and  interference 


173 


as  opposed  to 

Mt)|2  =  £|S„m(t)|2Mo)|2  (4) 

I  a 

which,  as  Born  and  Heisenberg  remark,  'one  might  suppose  from  the 
usual  probability  calculus'.  (In  standard  probability  calculus,  of  course, 
((!])  expresses  |d(i)|2  as  a  sum  over  conditional  transition  probabilities 
\Snm(t)\2  weighted  by  the  initial  population  probabilities  |cm(0)|2.) 

While  Born  and  Heisenberg  refer  to  J3])  as  the  'theorem  of  the  interfe- 
rence of  probabilities',  they  make  the  remarkable  assertion  that  there  is 
in  fact  no  contradiction  with  the  usual  rules  of  probability  calculus,  and 
that  the  IS^ml2  may  still  be  regarded  as  ordinary  probabilities.  Further, 
and  equally  remarkably,  it  is  claimed  that  in  any  case  where  the  state 
probabilities  |c„|2  are  experimentally  established,  the  presence  of  the 
unknown  phases  7„  makes  the  interfering  expression  |(3])  reduce  to  the 
non- interfering  expression  Q  (p.  1423ft: 

....  it  should  be  noted  that  this  'interference'  does  not  represent  a  contradiction 
with  the  rules  of  the  probability  calculus,  that  is,  with  the  assumption  that 
the  ISnfcl2  are  quite  usual  probabilities.  In  fact,  ....  [((4j)]  follows  from  the 
concept  of  probability  ....  when  and  only  when  the  relative  number,  that  is,  the 
probability  |cn|2  of  the  atoms  in  the  state  n,  has  been  established  beforehand 
experimentally.  In  this  case  the  phases  7n  are  unknown  in  principle,  so  that 
[([3])]  then  naturally  goes  over  to  [(H}]  

Here,  Born  and  Heisenberg  refer  to  Heisenberg's  (recently-published) 
uncertainty  paper,  which  contains  a  similar  claim.  There,  Heisenberg 
considers  a  Stern-Gerlach  atomic  beam  passing  through  two  successive 
regions  of  field  inhomogeneous  in  the  direction  of  the  beam  (so  as  to 
induce  transitions  between  energy  states  without  separating  the  beam 
into  components).  If  the  input  beam  is  in  a  definite  energy  state  then 
the  beam  emerging  from  the  first  region  will  be  in  a  superposition.  The 
probability  distribution  for  energy  emerging  from  the  second  region  will 
then  contain  interference  —  as  in  |(3]),  where  the  'initial'  superposition  (l} 
is  now  the  state  emerging  from  the  first  region.  Heisenberg  asserts  that,  if 
the  energy  of  an  atom  is  actually  measured  between  the  two  regions,  then 
because  of  the  resulting  perturbation  'the  "phase"  of  the  atom  changes  by 
amounts  that  are  in  principle  uncontrollable'  (Heisenberg  1927,  pp.  183- 
4),  and  averaging  over  the  unknown  phases  in  the  final  superposition 
yields  a  non- interfering  result. 

The  same  example,  with  the  same  phase  randomisation  argument,  is 
also  given  by  Heisenberg  (1930b)  in  his  book  The  Physical  Principles  of 


174 


Interference,  superposition,  and  collapse 


the  Quantum  Theory  (chapter  IV,  section  2),  which  was  based  on  lectures 
delivered  at  Chicago  in  1929.  Heisenberg  asserts  (p.  60)  that  an  energy 
measurement  for  an  atom  in  the  intermediate  region  'will  necessarily 
alter  the  phase  of  the  de  Broglie  wave  of  the  atom  in  state  m  by  an 
unknown  amount  of  order  of  magnitude  one',  so  that  in  applying  the 
(analogue  of  the)  interfering  expression  J3])  each  term  in  the  sum  'must 
thus  be  multiplied  by  the  arbitrary  factor  exp  (iipm)  and  then  averaged 
over  all  values  of  ipm\ 

From  a  modern  perspective,  this  argument  seems  strange  and  unfami- 
liar, and  indeed  quite  wrong.  However,  the  argument  makes  rather  more 
sense,  if  one  recognises  that  the  'quantum  mechanics'  described  by  Born 
and  Heisenberg  is  not  quantum  mechanics  as  we  usually  know  it  today. 
In  particular,  the  theory  as  they  present  it  appears  to  contain  no  notion 
of  wave  packet  collapse  (or  state  vector  reduction) . 

The  argument  given  by  Born  and  Heisenberg  amounts  to  saying,  in 
modern  language,  that  if  the  energies  of  an  atomic  population  have 
actually  been  measured,  then  one  will  have  a  mixture  of  states  of  the 
superposed  form  {TJ,  with  randomly-distributed  phases  jn.  Such  a  mix- 
ture is  indeed  statistically  equivalent  to  a  mixture  of  energy  states  \n) 
with  weights  |c„(0)|  ,  because  the  density  operators  are  the  same: 

V  k      n  J  /  n,m 

5>„(0)|2|n)(n|  .  (5) 

n 

However,  from  a  modern  point  of  view,  if  one  did  measure  the  atomic 
energies  and  find  the  value  En  with  frequency  pn,  the  resulting  total 
ensemble  would  naturally  be  represented  by  a  density  operator  p  = 
Y^nPn  \n)  (n\>  and  there  would  seem  to  be  no  particular  reason  to  rewrite 
this  in  terms  of  the  alternative  decomposition  on  the  left-hand  side  of  ((U 
(with  |c„(0)|2  =  pn  and  random  phases  e*7");  though  of  course  one  could 
if  one  wished  to.  What  is  more,  an  actual  inconsistency  would  appear  if 
—  having  measured  the  atomic  energies  —  one  selected  a  particular  atom 
that  was  found  to  have  energy  Em:  a  subsequent  and  immediate  energy 
measurement  for  this  particular  atom  should  again  yield  the  result  Em 
with  certainty,  as  is  consistent  with  the  usual  representation  of  the  atom 
by  the  state  \m),  and  this  certainty  would  be  inconsistent  with  what 
appears  to  be  (at  least  in  effect)  the  proposed  representation  of  the  atom 
by  a  state  J2n  |c„(0)|  e'7™  |n)  with  randomised  phases  jn.  Indeed,  for  any 


6.1  Probability  and  interference 


175 


subensemble  composed  of  the  latter  states,  all  the  energy  values  present 
in  the  sum  will  be  possible  outcomes  of  subsequent  and  immediate  energy 
measurements!^ 

This  inconsistency  arises,  however,  if  one  applies  the  modern  notion  of 
state  vector  collapse  —  a  notion  that,  upon  close  examination,  appears 
to  be  quite  absent  from  the  theory  presented  by  Born  and  Heisenberg. 
Instead  of  applying  the  usual  collapse  rule,  Born  and  Heisenberg  seem 
to  interpret  the  quantities  IS^ml  as  'quite  usual'  transition  probabilities 
in  all  circumstances,  even  in  the  presence  of  interference.  On  this  view, 
then,  an  atom  that  has  been  found  to  have  energy  Em  can  be  represented 
by  a  state  Y2n  |cn(0)|  e17™  \n)  with  randomised  phases  jn,  and  the  proba- 
bility of  obtaining  a  value  En  in  an  immediately  successive  measurement 
is  given  not  by  |c„(0)|2  (as  would  follow  from  the  usual  collapse  rule) 
but  by  the  transition  probability  |<Snm|2  —  where  the  latter  does  indeed 
approach  Snm  as  the  time  interval  between  the  two  energy  measurements 
tends  to  zero,  so  that  the  above  contradiction  does  not  in  fact  arise. 

Considering  now  the  whole  atomic  ensemble,  if  the  energies  of  the 
atoms  have  indeed  been  measured,  then  using  the  |£nm| '  as  transition 
probabilities  and  the  |cm(0)|  as  population  probabilities,  application  of 
the  probability  calculus  gives  the  non-interfering  result  (@]) .  As  noted  by 
Born  and  Heisenberg,  on  their  view  exactly  the  same  result  is  obtained 
from  the  'interfering'  expression  J3]),  with  random  phases  7m  appearing 
in  the  coefficients  cm(0)  =  |cm(0)|  e*7m. 

If  instead  the  atomic  energies  have  not  been  measured,  then,  according 
to  Born  and  Heisenberg,  the  phases  jm  have  not  been  randomised  and 
the  expression  (J3j)  does  show  interference,  in  contradiction  with  the 
non- interfering  expression  ([4]).  How  do  Born  and  Heisenberg  reconcile 
the  breakdown  of  |(4])  with  their  claim  that  the  ordinary  probability 
calculus  still  holds,  with  the  |Snm|2  being  quite  ordinary  probabilities? 
The  answer  seems  to  be  that,  if  the  energies  have  not  been  measured, 
then  the  population  probabilities  |cm(0)|2  are  in  some  sense  ill-defined, 
so  that  the  usual  probability  formula  (@])  simply  cannot  be  applied:  '[Q] 
follows  from  the  concept  of  probability  ....  when  and  only  when  ....  the 
probability  |cn|2  ....  has  been  established  beforehand  experimentally'. 

Born  and  Heisenberg  seem  to  take  an  'operational'  view  of  the  po- 

a  Of  course,  if  we  do  not  subdivide  the  atomic  ensemble  on  the  basis  of  the 
measured  energies,  the  total  ensemble  will  be  a  mixture  with  density  operator 
Tin  lc™(0)|2  \n)  (n\  and  wiH  indeed  be  indistinguishable  from  the  proposed  mixture 
of  states  Yin  lc"(0)l  e%ln  \n)  with  randomly-distributed  phases.  But  there  is 
nothing  to  prevent  an  experimenter  from  selecting  atoms  according  to  their 
measured  energies. 


176 


Interference,  superposition,  and  collapse 


pulation  probabilities,  in  the  sense  that  these  are  to  be  regarded  as 
meaningful  only  when  directly  measured.  And  the  cited  argument  in 
Heisenberg's  uncertainty  paper  suggests  that  it  is  operationally  impos- 
sible to  have  simultaneously  well-defined  phase  relations  and  population 
probabilities  in  the  same  experiment.  This  impossibility  was  presumably 
regarded  as  comparable  to  the  (operational)  impossibility  of  having 
simultaneously  a  well-defined  position  and  momentum  for  a  particle. 
What  seems  to  be  at  work  here,  then,  is  some  form  of  uncertainty 
relation  (or  complementarity)  between  population  probabilities  and  pha- 
ses: measurement  of  the  former  makes  the  latter  ill-defined,  and  vice 
versa.  Interference  requires  definite  phase  relationships,  which  preclude 
a  well-defined  population  probability,  so  that  the  ordinary  probability 
calculus  cannot  be  appliedEI  If  instead  the  population  probability  has 
actually  been  measured,  then  the  phases  are  indefinite  and  averaging 
over  them  washes  out  any  interference. 

The  resulting  viewpoint  is  certainly  remarkable.  According  to  Bom 
and  Heisenberg,  in  the  presence  of  interference,  the  quantities  |>!5„m|2 
continue  to  be  quite  ordinary  (transition)  probabilities,  while  the  quanti- 
ties |cm(0)|2  cannot  be  regarded  as  population  probabilities  —  rendering 
the  formula  (@])  inapplicable.  On  this  view,  ordinary  probability  calculus 
is  not  violated;  it  is  simply  wrong  to  assert  that  the  |cm(0)|2  represent 
state  probabilities  in  an  interfering  case. 

One  may  well  object  to  this  point  of  view  on  the  grounds  that,  even 
without  measuring  the  energies,  for  a  given  preparation  of  the  state 
U)  the  coefficients  cm(0)  —  and  hence  the  values  of  |cm(0)|2  —  will 
be  known  (up  to  an  overall  phase).  However,  presumably,  Born  and 
Heisenberg  would  have  had  to  assert  that  while  the  |cm(0)|2  always 
exist  as  mathematical  quantities,  they  cannot  be  properly  interpreted  as 
population  probabilities  unless  the  energies  have  been  measured  directly. 

From  a  modern  perspective,  Born  and  Heisenberg's  treatment  of  inter- 
ference is  surprising:  in  modem  quantum  mechanics,  of  course,  in  cases 
where  interference  occurs  the  quantities  |SVim|2  would  not  normally  be 
interpreted  as  'quite  usual'  transition  probabilities;  while  in  cases  where 
interference  does  not  occur,  the  non-interfering  result  ((!])  (as  applied 

a  There  is  an  analogy  here  with  Heisenberg's  view  of  causality,  expressed  in  his 
uncertainty  paper,  according  to  which  causality  cannot  be  applied  because  its 
premiss  is  generally  false:  in  the  sharp  formulation  of  the  law  of  causality,  "If 
we  know  the  present  exactly,  we  can  calculate  the  future",  it  is  not  the  consequent 
that  is  wrong,  but  the  antecedent.  We  cannot  in  principle  get  to  know  the  present 
in  all  [its]  determining  data'  (Heisenberg  1927,  p.  197). 


6.2  Macroscopic  superposition:  Bom's  discussion  of  the  cloud  charribW 

here)  would  not  normally  be  regarded  as  arising  from  the  interfering 
result  ((SJ  through  a  process  of  phase  randomisation. 

6.2  Macroscopic  superposition:  Born's  discussion  of  the  cloud 


Quantum  theory  is  normally  understood  to  allow  the  'superposition  of 
distinct  physical  states'.  However,  while  'superposition'  is  well-defined  as 
a  mathematical  term,  it  is  hard  to  make  sense  of  when  applied  to  physical 
states  —  that  is,  when  the  components  in  a  superposition  are  regarded 
as  simultaneous  physical  attributes  of  a  single  system.  The  need  to 
understand  such  'physical  superposition'  seems  particularly  acute  when 
it  is  considered  at  the  macroscopic  level.  The  difficulty  here  is  closely 
related  to  the  question  of  wave  packet  collapse:  how  is  a  mathematical 
superposition  of  macroscopically-distinct  states  related  to  the  definite 
macroscopic  states  seen  in  the  laboratory? 

The  Wilson  cloud  chamber,  as  used  to  observe  the  tracks  of  a-particles, 
was  discussed  at  length  by  Born  in  the  general  discussion.  The  cloud 
chamber  illustrates  the  measurement  problem  rather  well,  and  is  a  good 
example  of  how  microscopic  superpositions  can  become  transferred  to 
the  macroscopic  domain.  It  also  illustrates  how  extending  the  formal 
quantum  description  to  the  environment  does  not  by  itself  alleviate  the 
measurement  problem  (despite  many  claims  to  the  contrary,  for  example 


packet  collapse  is  not  required  to  discuss  the  cloud  chamber. 

The  mechanism  of  the  cloud  chamber  is  well  known.  The  a-particles 
pass  through  a  supersaturated  vapour.  The  passage  of  the  particles 
causes  ionisation,  and  the  vapour  condenses  around  the  ions,  resulting 
in  the  formation  of  tiny  droplets.  The  droplets  scatter  light,  making  the 
particle  tracks  visible. 

If  the  emission  of  an  a-particle  is  undirected,  so  that  the  emitted 
wave  function  is  approximately  spherical,  how  does  one  account  for  the 
approximately  straight  particle  track  revealed  by  the  cloud  chamber? 
In  the  general  discussion,  Born  attributes  this  question  to  Einstein,  and 
asserts  that  to  answer  it  (p.  I482[) 

....  one  must  appeal  to  the  notion  of  'reduction  of  the  probability  packet' 
developed  by  Heisenberg. 

a  For  a  summary  of  criticisms  of  environmental  decoherence  as  a  solution  to  the 
measurement  problem,  see  Bacciagaluppi  (2005). 


chamber 


Zurek 


asserts  that  wave 


178 


Interference,  superposition,  and  collapse 


This  notion  appears  in  Heisenberg's  uncertainty  paper,  which  had  been 
published  in  May  of  1927.  In  section  3,  entitled  'The  transition  from 
micro-  to  macromechanics',  Heisenberg  had  described  how  a  classical 
electron  orbit  'comes  into  being'  through  repeated  observation  of  the 
electron  position,  using  light  of  wavelength  A.  According  to  Heisenberg, 
the  result  of  each  observation  can  be  characterised  by  a  probability 
packet  of  width  A,  where  the  packet  spreads  freely  until  the  next  ob- 
servation: 'Every  determination  of  position  reduces  therefore  the  wave 
packet  back  to  its  original  size  A'  (Heisenberg  1927,  p.  186). 

In  the  case  of  the  cloud  chamber,  the  collapse  of  the  wave  packet 
is  applied  repeatedly  to  the  a-particle  alone.  Upon  producing  visible 
ionisation,  the  wave  packet  of  the  a-particle  collapses,  and  then  starts 
to  spread  again,  until  further  visible  ionisation  is  produced,  whereupon 
collapse  occurs  again,  and  so  on.  The  probability  for  the  resulting  'tra- 
jectory' is  concentrated  along  straight  lines,  accounting  for  the  observed 
track  in  the  cloud  chamber.  As  Born  puts  it  (p.  I482|) : 

The  description  of  the  emission  by  a  spherical  wave  is  valid  only  for  as  long 
as  one  does  not  observe  ionisation;  as  soon  as  such  ionisation  is  shown  by  the 
appearance  of  cloud  droplets,  in  order  to  describe  what  happens  afterwards 
one  must  'reduce'  the  wave  packet  in  the  immediate  vicinity  of  the  drops.  One 
thus  obtains  a  wave  packet  in  the  form  of  a  ray,  which  corresponds  to  the 
corpuscular  character  of  the  phenomenon. 

Here,  the  cloud  chamber  itself  —  the  ionisation,  and  the  formation  of 
droplets  from  the  vapour  —  is  treated  as  if  it  were  an  external  'classical 
apparatus':  only  the  a-particle  appears  in  the  wave  function. 

6.2.1  Quantum  mechanics  without  wave  packet  collapse? 

Born  goes  on  to  consider  if  wave  packet  reduction  can  be  avoided  by 
treating  the  atoms  of  the  cloud  chamber,  along  with  the  a-particle, 
as  a  single  system  described  by  quantum  theory,  a  suggestion  that  he 
attributes  to  Pauli  (p.  14820: 

Mr  Pauli  has  asked  me  if  it  is  not  possible  to  describe  the  process  without  the 
reduction  of  wave  packets,  by  resorting  to  a  multi-dimensional  space,  whose 
number  of  dimensions  is  three  times  the  number  of  all  the  particles  present 

 This  is  in  fact  possible  ....  but  this  does  not  lead  us  further  as  regards  the 

fundamental  questions. 

Remarkably,  Born  claims  that  a  treatment  without  reduction  is  'in 
fact'  possible,  and  goes  on  to  illustrate  how,  in  his  opinion,  this  can  be 


6.2  Macroscopic  superposition 


179 


done.  As  we  shall  see,  Born  seems  to  make  use  of  a  'classical'  probability 
reduction  only,  without  any  reduction  for  the  configuration-space  wave 
packet. 

As  for  Born's  reference  to  Pauli,  around  the  time  of  the  Solvay  con- 
ference Pauli  believed  that  wave  packet  reduction  was  needed  only  for 
describing  subsystems.  This  is  clear  from  a  letter  he  wrote  to  Bohr,  on 
17  October  1927  (one  week  before  the  Solvay  meeting  began),  in  which 
Pauli  comments  on  wave  packet  reduction  (Pauli  1979,  p.  411): 

This  is  precisely  a  point  that  was  not  quite  satisfactory  in  Heisenberg  [that 
is,  in  the  uncertainty  paper];  there  the  'reduction  of  the  packets'  seemed  a  bit 
mystical.  Now  however,  it  is  to  be  stressed  that  at  first  such  reductions  are 
not  necessary  if  one  includes  in  the  system  all  means  of  measurement.  But 
in  order  to  describe  observational  results  theoretically  at  all,  one  has  to  ask 
what  one  can  say  about  just  a  part  of  the  whole  system.  And  then  from  the 
complete  solution  one  sees  immediately  that,  in  many  cases  (of  course  not 
always),  leaving  out  the  means  of  observation  can  be  formally  replaced  by 
such  reductions. 

Thus,  at  that  time,  Pauli  thought  that  the  reduction  was  a  formality 
associated  with  an  effective  description  of  subsystems  alone,  and  that  if 
the  apparatus  were  included  in  the  system  then  reduction  would  not  be 
needed  at  all. 

Born,  then,  presents  a  multi-dimensional  treatment,  in  which  atoms 
in  the  cloud  chamber  are  described  by  quantum  theory  on  the  same 
footing  as  the  a-particle.  Born  considers  the  simple  case  of  a  model  cloud 
chamber  consisting  of  just  two  atoms  in  one  spatial  dimension.  There  are 
two  cases,  one  with  both  atoms  on  the  same  side  of  the  origin  (where  the 
a-particle  is  emitted),  and  the  other  with  the  atoms  on  opposite  sides  of 
the  origin.  The  two  'tubes'  in  Born's  diagram  (see  his  figure)  represent, 
for  the  two  cases,  the  time  development  of  the  total  (localised)  packet  in 
3-dimensional  configuration  space.  The  coordinate  xo  of  the  a-particle 
is  perpendicular  to  the  page,  while  xi7X2  are  the  coordinates  of  the  two 
atoms.  In  case  I,  the  initial  state  is  localised  at  x0  =  0,  x\,  x%  >  0;  in  case 
II  it  is  localised  at  xq  =  0,  x\  >  0,  X2  <  0.  Each  initial  packet  separates 
into  two  packets  moving  in  opposite  directions  along  the  xo-axis.  In  the 
first  case  the  two  collisions  (indicated  by  kinks  in  the  trajectory  of  the 
packelQ)  take  place  on  the  same  side  of  the  origin;  in  the  second  case  they 
take  place  on  opposite  sides.  Note  that,  in  both  cases,  both  branches  of 

a  Note  that  the  motion  occurs  in  one  spatial  dimension;  a  kink  in  the  configuration- 
space  trajectory  shows  that  the  corresponding  atom  has  undergone  a  small  spatial 
displacement. 


180 


Interference,  superposition,  and  collapse 


the  wave  packet  —  moving  in  opposite  directions  —  are  shown;  that  is, 
the  complete  ('uncollapsed')  packets  are  shown  in  the  figure. 
Born  remarks  (p.  1485(1  that: 

To  the  'reduction'  of  the  wave  packet  corresponds  the  choice  of  one  of  the 
two  directions  of  propagation  +xo,  —xo,  which  one  must  take  as  soon  as  it  is 
established  that  one  of  the  two  points  1  and  2  is  hit,  that  is  to  say,  that  the 
trajectory  of  the  packet  has  received  a  kink. 

Here  Born  seems  to  be  saying  that,  instead  of  reduction,  what  takes  place 
is  a  choice  of  direction  of  propagation.  But  propagation  of  what?  Born 
presumably  does  not  mean  a  choice  of  direction  of  propagation  of  the 
wave  packet,  for  that  would  amount  to  wave  packet  reduction,  which 
Born  at  the  outset  has  claimed  is  unnecessary  in  a  multi-dimensional 
treatment.  (And  indeed,  his  figure  shows  the  wave  packet  propagating 
in  both  directions.)  Instead,  Born  seems  to  be  referring  to  a  choice  in 
the  direction  of  propagation  of  the  system  (which  we  would  represent 
by  a  point  in  configuration  space).  The  wave  packet  spreads  in  both 
directions,  and  determines  the  probabilities  for  the  different  possible 
motions  of  the  system.  Once  the  direction  of  motion  of  the  system 
is  established,  by  the  occurrence  of  collisions,  an  ordinary  ('classical') 
reduction  of  the  probability  distribution  occurs  —  while  the  wave  packet 
itself  is  unchanged.  In  other  words,  the  probabilities  are  updated  but 
the  wave  packet  does  not  collapse.  This,  at  least,  appears  to  be  Born's 
point  of  view. 

This  may  seem  a  peculiar  interpretation  —  ordinary  probabilistic 
collapse  without  wave  packet  collapse  —  but  it  is  perhaps  related  to 
the  intuitive  thinking  behind  Born's  famous  collision  papers  of  the  pre- 
vious year  (Born  1926a, b)  (papers  in  which  probabilities  for  results  of 
collisions  were  identified  with  squares  of  scattering  amplitudes  for  the 
wave  functional).  Born  drew  an  analogy  with  Einstein's  notion  of  a  'ghost 
field'  that  determines  probabilities  for  photons  (see  chapter [9]).  As  Born 
put  it: 

In  this,  I  start  from  a  remark  by  Einstein  on  the  relationship  between  the  wave 
field  and  light  quanta;  he  said,  for  instance,  that  the  waves  are  there  only  to 
show  the  corpuscular  light  quanta  the  way,  and  in  this  sense  he  talked  of  a 
'ghost  field'.  This  determines  the  probability  for  a  light  quantum,  the  carrier 
of  energy  and  momentum,  to  take  a  particular  path;  the  field  itself,  however, 

possesses  no  energy  and  no  momentum        Given  the  perfect  analogy  between 

the  light  quantum  and  the  electron  ....  one  will  think  of  formulating  the  laws 
of  motion  of  electrons  in  a  similar  way.  And  here  it  is  natural  to  consider 


a  Cf.  the  discussion  in  section [3.4.31 


6.2  Macroscopic  superposition 


181 


the  de  Broglie-Schrodinger  waves  as  the  'ghost  field',  or  better,  'guiding  field' 
....  [which]  propagates  according  to  the  Schrodinger  equation.  Momentum  and 
energy,  however,  are  transferred  as  if  corpuscles  (electrons)  were  actually  flying 
around.  The  trajectories  of  these  corpuscles  are  determined  only  insofar  as  they 
are  constrained  by  the  conservation  of  energy  and  momentum;  furthermore, 
only  a  probability  for  taking  a  certain  path  is  determined  by  the  distribution 
of  values  of  the  function  ip.  (Born  1926b,  pp.  803-4) 

Here,  Born  seems  to  be  suggesting  that  there  are  stochastic  trajecto- 
ries for  electrons,  with  probabilities  for  paths  determined  by  the  wave 
function  ip.  It  is  not  clear,  though,  whether  the  ip  field  is  to  be  regarded 
as  a  physical  field  associated  with  individual  systems  (as  the  electromag- 
netic field  usually  is),  or  whether  it  is  to  be  regarded  merely  as  relating 
to  an  ensemble.  If  the  former,  then  it  might  make  sense  to  apply  collapse 
to  the  probabilities  without  applying  collapse  to  ip  itself.  For  example, 
this  could  happen  in  a  stochastic  version  of  de  Broglie-Bohm  theory:  ip 
could  be  a  physical  field  evolving  at  all  times  by  the  Schrodinger  equation 
(hence  never  collapsing) ,  and  instead  of  generating  deterministic  particle 
trajectories  (as  in  standard  de  Broglie-Bohm  theory)  ip  could  generate 
probabilistic  motions  only.  Further  evidence  that  Born  was  indeed  thin- 
king along  such  lines  comes  from  an  unpublished  manuscript  by  Born 
and  Jordan,  written  in  1925,  in  which  they  propose  a  stochastic  theory  of 
photon  trajectories  with  probabilities  determined  by  the  electromagnetic 
field  (as  originally  envisaged  by  Slater)  —  see  Darrigol  (1992,  p.  253) 


Thus,  in  his  discussion  of  the  cloud  chamber,  when  Born  spoke  of  'the 
choice  of  one  of  the  two  directions  of  propagation',  he  may  indeed  have 
been  referring  to  the  possible  directions  of  propagation  of  the  system 
configuration,  with  the  ip  field  remaining  in  a  superposition.  On  this 
reading,  wave  packet  reduction  for  the  a-particle  would  be  only  an 
effective  description,  which  properly  corresponds  to  the  branching  of 
the  total  wave  function  together  with  a  random  choice  of  trajectory  (in 
multi-dimensional  configuration  space).  Unfortunately,  however,  Born's 
intentions  are  not  entirely  clear:  whether  this  really  is  what  Born  had 
in  mind,  in  1926  or  1927,  is  difficult  to  say.  Certainly,  in  the  general 
discussion  at  the  fifth  Solvay  conference,  Born  did  maintain  that  ip  does 

a  In  this  connection  it  is  interesting  to  note  the  following  passage  from  Born's  book 
Atomic  Physics  (Born  1969),  which  was  first  published  in  German  in  1933:  'A 
mechanical  process  is  therefore  accompanied  by  a  wave  process,  the  guiding  wave, 
described  by  Schrodinger's  equation,  the  significance  of  which  is  that  it  gives  the 
probability  of  a  definite  course  of  the  mechanical  process'.  Born's  reference  to  the 
wave  function  as  'the  guiding  wave'  shows  the  lingering  influence  of  the  ideas  that 
had  inspired  him  in  1926. 


182 


Interference,  superposition,  and  collapse 


not  really  collapse  (in  this  multi-dimensional  treatment) ,  so  it  is  difficult 
to  see  how  he  could  have  thought  that  ip  gave  merely  a  probability 
distribution  over  an  ensemble. 

The  claim  that  the  wave  function  ip  does  not  collapse  is  also  found, 
in  effect,  in  section  II  of  the  report  that  Born  and  Heisenberg  gave  on 
quantum  mechanics.  As  we  saw  in  section  16.1. 2\  in  their  discussion  of 
interference,  an  energy  measurement  is  taken  to  induce  a  randomisation 
of  the  phases  appearing  in  a  superposition  of  energy  states,  instead  of  the 
usual  collapse  to  an  energy  eigenstate.  In  their  example,  after  an  energy 
measurement  all  of  the  components  of  the  superposition  are  still  present, 
and  the  phase  relations  between  them  are  randomised.  In  Born's  example 
of  the  cloud  chamber,  it  seems  that,  here  too,  all  of  the  components  of 
the  wave  function  are  still  present  at  the  end  of  a  measurement.  Nothing 
is  said,  however,  about  the  relative  phases  of  the  components,  and  we  do 
not  know  whether  or  not  Born  had  in  mind  a  similar  phase  randomisation 
in  this  case  also. 

6.3  Dirac  and  Heisenberg:  interference,  state  reduction,  and 

delayed  choice 

Another  striking  feature  of  quantum  theory,  as  normally  understood, 
is  'interference  between  alternative  histories'.  Like  superposition,  in- 
terference is  mathematically  well-defined  but  its  physical  meaning  is 
ambiguous,  and  it  has  long  been  considered  one  of  the  main  mysteries 
of  quantum  theory  (as  we  saw  in  section  I6.ip .  The  question  of  when 
interference  can  or  cannot  take  place  is  intimately  bound  up  with  the 
measurement  problem,  in  particular,  with  the  question  of  when  or  how 
definite  outcomes  emerge  from  quantum  experiments,  and  with  the  que- 
stion of  the  boundary  between  the  quantum  and  classical  domains. 

In  modern  times,  one  of  the  most  puzzling  aspects  of  interference  was 
emphasised  by  Wheeler  (1978).  In  his  'delayed-choice'  experiment,  it 
appears  that  the  existence  or  non-existence  of  interfering  histories  in 
the  past  is  determined  by  an  experimental  choice  made  in  the  present. 
One  version  of  Wheeler's  experiment  —  a  'delayed-choice  double-slit 
experiment'  with  single  photons  —  is  shown  in  Fig. I6.H  A  single  photon 
is  incident  on  a  screen  with  two  slits.  The  waves  emerging  from  the 
slits  are  focussed  (by  off-centred  lenses)  so  as  to  cross  each  other  as 
shown.  The  insertion  of  a  photographic  plate  in  the  interference  region 
would  seem  (from  the  interference  pattern)  to  imply  the  past  existence  of 
interfering  trajectories  passing  through  both  slits.  On  the  other  hand,  if 


6.3  Dirac  and  Heisenberg 


183 


Fig.  6.1.  Delayed-choice  double-slit  experiment. 


no  such  plate  is  inserted,  then  a  detection  at  P  or  P '  seems  to  imply  that 
the  particle  passed  through  the  bottom  or  top  slit  respectively^  Since 
the  plate  could  have  been  inserted  long  after  the  photon  completed  most 
of  its  journey  (or  journeys),  it  appears  that  an  experimental  choice  now 
can  affect  whether  or  not  there  was  a  definite  photon  path  in  the  past. 

A  similar  point  arose  in  1927  in  the  general  discussion.  Dirac  expoun- 
ded his  view  that  quantum  outcomes  occur  when  nature  makes  a  choice. 
Heisenberg  replied  that  this  could  not  be,  because  of  the  possibility  of 
observing  interference  later  on  by  choosing  an  appropriate  experimental 
arrangement,  leading  Heisenberg  to  conclude  that  outcomes  occur  when 
a  choice  is  made  (or  brought  about)  not  by  nature  but  by  the  observer. 
Heisenberg's  view  here  bears  some  resemblance  to  Wheeler's.  Dirac,  in 
contrast,  seems  to  say  on  the  one  hand  that  stochastic  collapse  of  the 
wave  packet  occurs  for  microscopic  systems,  while  on  the  other  hand 

a  This  inference  is  commonly  made,  usually  without  explicit  justification.  Some 
authors  appeal  to  conservation  of  momentum  for  a  free  particle,  but  it  is  not  clear 
how  such  an  argument  could  be  made  precise  —  after  all  there  are  no  particle 
trajectories  in  standard  quantum  theory.  In  de  Broglie-Bohm  theory,  the  inference 
is  actually  wrong:  particles  detected  at  P  or  P '  come  from  the  top  or  bottom  slits 
respectively  (Bell  1980;  Bell  1987,  chap.  14). 


184 


Interference,  superposition,  and  collapse 


that  if  the  experiment  is  chosen  so  as  to  allow  interference  then  such 
collapse  is  postponed. 

Here  is  how  Dirac  expresses  it  (p.  I493|): 

According  to  quantum  mechanics  the  state  of  the  world  at  any  time  is  descri- 
bable  by  a  wave  function  ip,  which  normally  varies  according  to  a  causal  law, 
so  that  its  initial  value  determines  its  value  at  any  later  time.  It  may  however 
happen  that  at  a  certain  time  ti,  ip  can  be  expanded  in  the  form 

Ip  =  ^Jc^n  , 

n 

where  the  ipn's  are  wave  functions  of  such  a  nature  that  they  cannot  interfere 
with  one  another  at  any  time  subsequent  to  ti .  If  such  is  the  case,  then  the 
world  at  times  later  than  ti  will  be  described  not  by  ip  but  by  one  of  the  i/)n's. 
The  particular  ipn  that  it  shall  be  must  be  regarded  as  chosen  by  nature. 

Note  first  of  all  that  Dirac  regards  ip  as  describing  the  state  'of  the 
world'  —  presumably  the  whole  world.  Then,  in  circumstances  where 
ip  may  be  expanded  in  terms  of  non-interfering  states  ipn,  the  world 
is  subsequently  described  by  one  of  the  tpn  (the  choice  being  made  by 
nature,  the  probability  for  ipn  being  |cn|2).  Dirac  does  not  elaborate  on 
precisely  when  or  why  a  decomposition  into  non-interfering  states  should 
exist,  nor  does  he  address  the  question  of  whether  such  a  decomposition 
is  likely  to  be  unique.  Such  questions,  of  course,  go  to  the  heart  of  the 
measurement  problem,  and  are  lively  topics  of  current  research. 

It  is  interesting  that,  in  Dirac's  view  (apparently),  there  are  circum- 
stances in  which  interference  is  completely  and  irreversibly  destroyed. 
For  him,  the  particular  ipn  results  from  (p.  1494ft: 

an  irrevocable  choice  of  nature,  which  must  affect  the  whole  of  the  future 
course  of  events. 

It  seems  that  according  to  Dirac,  once  nature  makes  a  choice  of  one 
branch,  interference  with  the  other  branches  is  impossible  for  the  whole 
of  the  future.  A  definite  collapse  has  occurred,  after  which  interference 
between  the  alternative  outcomes  is  no  longer  possible,  even  in  principle. 
This  view  clearly  violates  the  Schrodinger  equation  as  applied  to  the 
whole  world:  as  Dirac  states,  the  wave  function  ip  of  the  world  'normally' 
evolves  according  to  a  causal  law,  but  not  always. 

But  Dirac  goes  further,  and  recognises  that  there  are  circumstances 
where  the  choice  made  by  nature  cannot  have  occurred  at  the  point 
where  it  might  have  been  expected.  Dirac  considers  the  specific  example 
of  the  scattering  of  an  electron.  He  first  notes  that,  after  the  scattering, 
one  must  take  the  wave  function  to  be  not  the  whole  scattered  wave 


6.3  Dirac  and  Heisenberg 


185 


but  a  packet  moving  in  a  specific  direction  (that  is,  one  of  the  ipn).  He 
claims  (p.  1494ft  that  one  could  infer  that  nature  had  chosen  this  specific 
direction: 

Prom  the  results  of  an  experiment,  by  tracing  back  a  chain  of  causally  connec- 
ted events  one  could  determine  in  which  direction  the  electron  was  scattered 
and  one  would  thus  infer  that  nature  had  chosen  this  direction. 

This  is  illustrated  in  Fig.  16.21(a).  If  the  electron  is  detected  at  P,  for 
example,  one  may  arguably  infer  a  corresponding  choice  of  direction  at 
the  time  of  scattering.  (Note  that  Figs.  I6.2fa)-(c)  are  ours.) 

On  the  other  hand,  Dirac  goes  on  to  make  the  following  observation 
(p.  023: 

If,  now,  one  arranged  a  mirror  to  reflect  the  electron  wave  scattered  in  one 
direction  di  so  as  to  make  it  interfere  with  the  electron  wave  scattered  in 
another  direction  di,  one  would  not  be  able  to  distinguish  between  the  case 
when  the  electron  is  scattered  in  the  direction  cfe  and  when  it  is  scattered  in 
the  direction  di  and  reflected  back  into  d-z.  One  would  then  not  be  able  to 
trace  back  the  chain  of  causal  events  so  far,  and  one  would  not  be  able  to  say 
that  nature  had  chosen  a  direction  as  soon  as  the  collision  occurred,  but  only 
[that]  at  a  later  time  nature  chose  where  the  electron  should  appear. 

Dirac's  modified  scenario  is  sketched  in  Fig.  16.21(b) .  The  presence  of 
the  mirror  leads  to  interference,  at  Q,  between  parts  of  the  electron  wave 
scattered  in  different  directions  d\,  d2.  And  Dirac's  interpretation  is  that 
this  interference  is  intimately  related  to  the  fact  that  an  experimenter 
observing  the  outgoing  electron  in  a  direction  d2  'would  not  be  able 
to  distinguish  between  the  case  when  the  electron  is  scattered  in  the 
direction  d2  and  when  it  is  scattered  in  the  direction  d%  and  reflected 
back  into  d2.  The  experimenter  would  not  be  able  to  'trace  back  the 
chain  of  causal  events'  to  the  point  where  he  could  say  that  'nature  had 
chosen  a  direction  as  soon  as  the  collision  occurred'.  For  Dirac,  in  this 
case,  nature  did  not  make  a  choice  at  the  time  of  the  collision,  and  only 
later  nature  'chose  where  the  electron  should  appear'. 

What  Dirac  describes  here  is  precisely  the  viewpoint  popularised  by 
Feynman  in  his  famous  lectures  (Feynman  1965),  according  to  which  if  a 
process  occurs  by  different  routes  that  are  subsequently  indistinguishable 
(in  the  sense  that  afterwards  an  experimenter  is  in  principle  unable  to  tell 
which  route  was  taken)  then  the  probability  amplitudes  for  the  different 
routes  are  to  be  added;  whereas  if  the  different  routes  are  subsequently 
distinguishable  in  principle,  then  the  probabilities  are  to  be  added@ 

a  Note  that  Feynman's  path-integral  formulation  of  quantum  theory  —  developed  in 


186 


Interference,  superposition,  and  collapse 


Fig.  6.2.  Reconstruction  of  scattering  scenarios  discussed  by  Dirac  (Figs,  (a), 
(b))  and  Heisenberg  (Fig.  (c)). 


Dirac's  presentation  of  the  scattering  experiment  with  the  mirror  ends 
with  the  statement  (p.  1494ft: 

The  interference  between  the  i/>„'s  compels  nature  to  postpone  her  choice. 

his  PhD  thesis  and  elsewhere  (Feynman  1942,  1948)  —  was  anticipated  by  Dirac 
(1933).  Feynman's  thesis  and  Dirac's  paper  are  reprinted  in  Brown  (2005). 


6.3  Dirac  and  Heisenberg 


187 


In  his  manuscript,  a  cancelled  version  of  the  sentence  begins  with  'Thus  a 
possibility  of  interference  between  ....  ',  while  another  cancelled  version 
begins  as  'Thus  the  existence  of  ....  '  (italics  added).  Possibly,  Dirac 
hesitated  here  because  he  saw  that  the  mirror  could  be  added  by  the 
experimenter  after  the  scattering  had  taken  place,  leading  to  difficulties 
with  his  view  that  without  the  mirror  nature  makes  a  choice  at  the  time 
of  scattering.  For  if,  in  the  absence  of  the  mirror,  nature  indeed  makes 
a  choice  at  the  time  of  scattering,  how  could  this  choice  be  undone  by 
subsequent  addition  of  the  mirror?  Whether  Dirac  really  foresaw  this 
difficulty  is  hard  to  say.  In  any  case,  precisely  this  point  was  made  by 
Heisenberg,  and  Dirac's  hesitation  here  certainly  reflects  a  deep  difficulty 
that  lies  at  the  heart  of  the  measurement  problem. 

Heisenberg  makes  his  point  with  disarming  simplicity  (p.  1496(1 : 

I  do  not  agree  with  Mr  Dirac  when  he  says  that,  in  the  described  experiment, 
nature  makes  a  choice.  Even  if  you  place  yourself  very  far  away  from  your 
scattering  material,  and  if  you  measure  after  a  very  long  time,  you  are  able 
to  obtain  interference  by  taking  two  mirrors.  If  nature  had  made  a  choice,  it 
would  be  difficult  to  imagine  how  the  interference  is  produced. 

What  Heisenberg  had  in  mind  seems  to  have  been  something  like  the 
set-up  shown  in  Fig.  I6.2fc) ,  where  a  pair  of  mirrors  is  placed  far  away 
from  the  scattering  region,  causing  different  parts  of  the  scattered  wave 
to  re-overlap  and  interfere  at  R.  According  to  Dirac's  account,  in  the 
absence  of  any  mirrors  (Fig.  I6,2fa)b  upon  detection  of  the  particle  one 
might  say  that  nature  chose  a  specific  direction  at  the  time  of  scattering. 
Heisenberg  points  out  that,  by  placing  mirrors  far  away  (and  removing 
the  detectors  at  P  and  P'),  interference  may  be  observed  a  long  time 
after  the  scattering  took  place. 

While  Heisenberg  does  not  mention  it  explicitly,  in  this  example  the 
choice  between  'which-way  information'  on  the  one  hand,  or  interfering 
paths  on  the  other,  may  be  made  long  after  the  particle  has  completed 
most  of  its  journey  (or  journeys),  just  as  in  Wheeler's  delayed-choice 
experiment.  Dirac's  set-up  with  no  mirrors  at  all  provides  which-way 
information,  since  detection  of  the  particle  at  a  point  far  away  may  be 
interpreted  as  providing  information  on  the  direction  chosen  at  the  time 
of  scattering  (Fig.  16.2(a)).  Heisenberg's  modification,  with  the  two  mir- 
rors, demonstrates  interference  between  alternative  paths  starting  from 
the  scattering  region  fFig.l6.2fc)b  Unlike  Wheeler,  however,  Heisenberg 
does  not  explicitly  emphasise  that  the  choice  of  whether  or  not  to  add 
the  mirrors  could  be  made  at  the  last  moment,  long  after  the  scattering 


188 


Interference,  superposition,  and  collapse 


takes  place.  On  the  other  hand,  Heisenberg  does  emphasise  that  the 
measurement  with  the  mirrors  could  be  done  'very  far  away'  and  'after 
a  very  long  time',  and  notes  the  contradiction  with  nature  having  made 
a  choice  at  the  time  of  scattering.  Thus,  Heisenberg's  remarks  arguably 
contain  the  essence  of  Wheeler's  delayed-choice  experiment. 

Heisenberg  goes  on  to  say  (p.  I496j)  that,  instead  of  nature  making  a 
choice, 

I  should  rather  say,  as  I  did  in  my  last  paper,  that  the  observer  himself  makes 
the  choice,  because  it  is  only  at  the  moment  where  the  observation  is  made 
that  the  'choice'  has  become  a  physical  reality  and  that  the  phase  relationship 
in  the  waves,  the  power  of  interference,  is  destroyed. 

From  the  chronology  of  Heisenberg's  publications,  here  he  must  be  re- 
ferring to  his  uncertainty  paper  (published  in  May  1927),  in  which  he 
writes  that  'all  perceiving  is  a  choice  from  a  plenitude  of  possibilities' 
(Heisenberg  1927,  p.  197).  Heisenberg's  statement  above  that  the  obser- 
ver 'makes'  the  choice  seems  to  be  meant  in  the  sense  of  the  observer 
'bringing  about'  the  choice.  Thus  it  would  seem  that,  for  Heisenberg, 
a  definite  outcome  occurs  —  and  there  is  no  longer  any  possibility  of 
interference  —  only  when  an  experimenter  makes  an  observation.  Similar 
views  have  been  expressed  by  Wheeler  (1986). 

One  may,  however,  object  to  this  viewpoint,  on  the  grounds  that  there 
is  no  reason  in  principle  why  a  more  advanced  being  could  not  observe 
interference  between  the  alternative  states  of  the  detector  registering 
interference,  or,  between  the  alternative  states  of  the  human  observer 
watching  the  detector.  (Cf.  the  discussion  of  Wigner's  paradox  in  secti- 
on!5.2.21)  After  all,  the  detector  is  certainly  just  another  physical  system, 
built  out  of  atoms.  And  as  far  as  we  can  tell,  human  observers  can 
likewise  be  treated  as  physical  systems  built  out  of  atoms.  To  say  that 
'the  power  of  interference'  is  'destroyed'  when  and  only  when  a  human 
observer  intervenes  is  to  make  a  remarkable  assertion  to  the  effect  that 
human  beings,  unlike  any  other  physical  systems,  have  special  properties 
by  virtue  of  which  they  cannot  be  treated  by  ordinary  physical  laws  but 
generate  deviations  from  those  laws.  As  we  have  already  mentioned, 
there  is  no  evidence  that  human  beings  are  able  to  violate,  for  example, 
the  laws  of  gravity  or  of  thermodynamics,  and  it  would  be  remarkable 
if  they  were  indeed  able  to  violate  the  laws  of  quantum  physics. 

It  is  interesting  to  note  that,  while  for  Heisenberg  the  human  observer 
seems  to  play  a  crucial  role  at  the  end  of  a  quantum  experiment,  for 
Dirac  the  human  observer  —  and  his  'freewill'  —  seems  to  play  a  crucial 


6.3  Further  remarks  on  Born  and  Heisenberg  189 


role  at  the  beginning,  in  the  preparation  stage.  For  as  Dirac  puts  it 
(p.  1493)  Dirac's  italics):  'The  disturbances  that  an  experimenter  applies 
to  a  system  to  observe  it  are  directly  under  his  control,  and  are  acts  of 
freewill  by  him.  It  is  only  the  numbers  that  describe  these  acts  of  freewill 
that  can  be  taken  as  initial  numbers  for  a  calculation  in  the  quantum 
theory1 .  (Cf.  the  discussion  about  determinism  in  section  l&2l) 

Returning  to  Dirac's  view  of  quantum  outcomes,  Heisenberg's  objec- 
tion certainly  causes  a  difficulty.  If  a  choice  —  or  collapse  to  a  particular 
ipn  —  really  does  occur  around  the  time  of  scattering,  then  a  'delayed 
interference  experiment'  of  the  form  described  by  Heisenberg  should 
show  no  interference,  and  Dirac's  view  would  amount  to  a  violation 
of  the  quantum  formalism  along  the  lines  of  dynamical  models  of  wave 
function  collapse  (Pearle  1976,  1979,  1989;  Ghirardi,  Rimini  and  Weber 
1986).  And  Dirac's  caveats  concerning  the  possibility  of  tracing  back 
a  chain  of  causal  events  do  not  lead  to  a  really  satisfactory  position 
either.  As  in  Feynman's  view  that  interference  occurs  only  for  paths 
that  are  subsequently  indistinguishable,  the  question  is  begged  as  to 
the  precise  definition  of  subsequently  distinguishable  or  subsequently 
indistinguishable  paths:  for  in  a  delayed-choice  set-up,  it  appears  to  be 
at  the  later  whim  of  the  experimenter  to  decide  whether  certain  paths 
taken  in  the  past  are  subsequently  distinguishable  or  not.  This  procedure 
correctly  predicts  the  experimental  results  (or  statistics  thereof),  but  it 
has  the  peculiar  consequence  that  whether  or  not  there  is  a  matter  of  fact 
about  the  past  depends  on  what  the  experimenter  does  in  the  present. 

Finally,  as  discussed  in  sectionl6-l.lt  interference  was  considered  from 
a  pilot-wave  perspective  by  de  Broglie  in  his  report  and  by  Brillouin 
in  the  discussion  that  followed.  De  Broglie  did  not  comment,  however, 
on  the  exchange  between  Dirac  and  Heisenberg.  From  a  modern  point 
of  view  it  is  clear  that,  in  his  theory,  the  particle  trajectory  does  take 
one  particular  route  after  a  scattering  process,  while  at  the  same  time 
there  are  portions  of  the  scattered  wave  travelling  along  the  alternative 
routes.  An  'empty'  part  of  the  wave  can  be  subsequently  reflected  by  a 
mirror,  and  if  the  reflected  wave  later  reoverlaps  with  the  part  of  the 
wave  carrying  the  particle,  then  in  the  interference  zone  the  particle  is 
indeed  affected  by  both  components.  Similarly,  de  Broglie's  theory  pro- 
vides a  straightforward  account  of  Wheeler's  delayed-choice  experiment, 
without  present  actions  influencing  the  past  in  any  way  (Bell  1980;  Bell 
1987,  chap.  14;  Bohm,  Dewdney  and  Hiley  1985). 


190 


Interference,  superposition,  and  collapse 


6.4  Further  remarks  on  Born  and  Heisenberg's  quantum 

mechanics 

As  we  saw  in  section  l6.1.2[  Born  and  Heisenberg's  report  contains  some 
remarkable  comments  about  the  nature  of  interference  (in  section  II, 
'Physical  interpretation').  These  comments  are  perhaps  related  to  a 
conceptual  transition  that  seems  to  occur  at  around  this  point  in  their 
presentation.  In  the  earlier  part  of  their  section  II,  Born  and  Heisenberg 
describe  a  theory  in  which  probabilistic  transitions  occur  between  pos- 
sessed values  of  energy;  while  later  in  the  same  section,  in  their  discussion 
of  arbitrary  observables,  they  emphasise  probabilistic  transitions  from 
one  measurement  to  the  next  (still  noting  the  presence  of  interference) . 
Earlier  in  that  section  they  explicitly  assert  that  a  system  always  occu- 
pies a  definite  energy  state  at  any  one  time,  while  in  the  later  treatment 
of  arbitrary  observables  nothing  is  said  about  whether  a  system  always 
possesses  definite  values  or  not.  This  is  perhaps  not  surprising,  given 
that  the  discussion  of  interference  (for  the  case  of  energy  measurements) 
made  it  clear  that  taking  the  quantities  |c„(i)|2  =  |  (n  \ip(t))  |2  to  be 
population  probabilities  for  energies  En  led  to  a  difficulty  in  the  presence 
of  interference.  As  we  saw  in  sectionl6.1.2[  Born  and  Heisenberg  resolved 
the  difficulty  by  asserting  that  unmeasured  population  probabilities  are 
somehow  not  applicable  or  meaningful.  This  does  not  seem  consistent 
with  the  view  they  expressed  earlier,  that  atoms  always  have  definite 
energy  states  even  when  these  are  not  measured.  How  could  an  ensemble 
of  atoms  have  definite  energy  states,  without  the  energy  distribution 
being  meaningful? 

Consideration  of  interference,  then,  was  likely  to  force  a  shift  away 
from  the  view  that  atoms  are  always  in  definite  stationary  states.  La- 
ter, in  his  book  of  1930,  Heisenberg  did  in  fact  explicitly  deny  that 
atoms  are  always  in  such  states.  Considering  again  the  example  from 
his  uncertainty  paper,  of  atoms  passing  through  two  successive  regions 
of  inhomogeneous  field  (see  section  [6.1. 2|l.  Heisenberg  notes  that  if  the 
energies  are  not  actually  measured  in  the  intermediate  region,  then, 
because  of  the  resulting  'interference  of  probabilities', 

it  is  not  reasonable  to  speak  of  the  atom  as  having  been  in  a  stationary  state 
between  Fi  and  Fi  [that  is,  in  the  intermediate  region].  (Heisenberg  1930b, 
p.  61) 

As  we  have  already  noted,  again  in  section  16.1.21  Born  and  Heisen- 
berg's discussion  of  interference  seems  to  dispense  with  the  standard  col- 
lapse postulate  for  quantum  states.  Upon  performing  an  energy  measure- 


6.4  Further  remarks  on  Born  and  Heisenberg  191 


ment,  instead  of  the  usual  collapse  to  a  single  energy  eigenstate  \n),  Born 
and  Heisenberg  in  effect  replace  the  superposition  ^2n  |c„(0)|  e17™  |n)  by 
a  similar  expression  with  randomised  phases  7„.  And  the  justification 
given  for  this  appears  to  be  some  form  of  uncertainty  relation  or  com- 
plementarity between  population  probabilities  and  phases:  if  the  former 
have  been  measured,  then  the  latter  are  ill-defined,  and  vice  versa. 
On  this  view,  the  definite  phase  relationships  associated  with  interfe- 
rence preclude  the  possibility  of  speaking  of  a  well-defined  population 
probability,  so  that  the  usual  formulas  of  probability  calculus  cannot 
be  properly  applied;  on  the  other  hand,  if  the  population  probability 
has  been  measured  experimentally,  then  the  phases  are  ill-defined,  and 
averaging  over  the  random  phases  destroys  interference. 

One  crucial  point  is  not  entirely  clear,  however.  Was  the  phase  ran- 
domisation thought  to  occur  only  upon  measurement  of  energy,  or  upon 
measurement  of  any  arbitrary  observable? 

The  phase  randomisation  explicitly  appealed  to  by  Born  and  Heisen- 
berg takes  the  following  form:  for  a  quantum  state 

\m)  =  E  \E)  (E  W*)>  =  E  \E)  (E  W0)>  e-lEt  (6) 

E  E 

an  energy  measurement  induces  a  random  change  in  each  phase  factor 
e-iEt  _^  e-iEteif(E)  ^  wjlere  eacn  7(£l)  is  random  on  the  unit  circle. 
This  procedure  might  be  generalised  to,  for  example,  measurements  of 
position,  as  follows:  for  a  state 

iv)  cx  e  ix>  (x  m  cx  e  ( E  ip>  e"px )  <x  w  (7) 

X  x      \    p  / 

(writing  as  if  x  and  p  were  discrete,  for  simplicity)  one  might  suppo- 
se that  a  position  measurement  induces  a  random  change  e~4p  x  — ► 
e-tp.xe87(x)^  resuiting  in  a  state 

E|x)(xhA)e^x>  (8) 

x 

with  random  relative  phases.  Averaging  over  the  random  phases  7(x) 
would  then  destroy  interference  between  different  positions,  just  as  in 
the  case  of  energy  measurements. 

However,  we  have  found  no  clear  evidence  that  Born  or  Heisenberg 
considered  any  such  generalisation.  It  then  seems  possible  that  the  phase 
randomisation  argument  for  the  suppression  of  interference  was  to  be 
applied  to  the  case  of  energy  measurements  only.  On  the  other  hand, 


192 


Interference,  superposition,  and  collapse 


there  is  a  suggestive  remark  by  Heisenberg  in  the  general  discussion 
(p.  I496|l.  quoted  in  the  last  section.  When  expressing  his  view  that  defi- 
nite outcomes  occur  only  when  an  experimenter  makes  an  observation, 
Heisenberg  refers  to  an  example  where  position  measurements  are  made 
at  the  end  of  a  scattering  process  (see  Fig.  16.2(c)).  and  he  states  that 
it  is  only  when  the  observation  is  made  that  'the  phase  relationship 
in  the  waves,  the  power  of  interference,  is  destroyed'.  This  might  be 
read  as  suggesting  that  the  waves  continue  to  exist,  but  may  or  may 
not  have  the  capacity  to  interfere  —  depending  on  whether  or  not  the 
phase  relations  have  been  randomised  by  the  position  measurement. 
If  Heisenberg  did  take  such  a  view,  his  use  of  wave  packet  reduction 
for  position  measurements  in  the  uncertainty  paper  would  have  to  be 
interpreted  as  some  sort  of  effective  description. 

Even  in  the  case  of  energy  measurements,  the  status  of  the  phase 
randomisation  argument  is  not  clear.  After  all,  Born  and  Heisenberg 
assert  that  the  time-dependent  Schrodinger  equation  itself  (which  they 
use  to  discuss  interference)  is  only  phenomenological,  and  applicable  to 
subsystems  only.  Fundamentally,  they  have  a  time-independent  theory 
for  a  closed  system.  Presumably,  the  phase  randomisation  for  energy 
measurements  was  also  seen  as  phenomenological  only,  with  the  measu- 
red system  being  treated  as  a  subsystem. 

As  we  saw  in  section  16.31  in  the  general  discussion  Dirac  describes 
what  is  recognisably  the  process  of  wave  packet  reduction.  Born  and 
Heisenberg,  in  contrast,  seem  to  speak  only  of  the  ordinary  reduction 
(or  conditionalisation)  of  'probability  functions'  as  it  appears  in  standard 
probability  calculus.  As  they  put  it,  near  the  end  of  section  III  of  their 
report  (p.l43lj): 

the  result  of  each  measurement  can  be  expressed  by  the  choice  of  appropriate 

initial  values  for  probability  functions  Each  new  experiment  replaces  the 

probability  functions  valid  until  now  with  new  ones,  which  correspond  to  the 
result  of  the  observation  

On  the  other  hand,  Born  and  Heisenberg's  contributions  at  the  Solvay 
conference  do  not  seem  sufficiently  clear  or  complete  to  warrant  definite 
conclusions  as  to  what  they  believed  concerning  the  precise  relationship 
between  probabilities  and  the  wave  function;  sometimes  it  is  unclear 
whether  or  not  they  mean  to  draw  a  distinction  between  probability 
distributions  on  the  one  hand  and  wave  functions  on  the  other. 

It  may  be  that,  in  October  1927,  Born  and  Heisenberg  had  in  some 
respects  not  yet  reached  a  definitive  point  of  view,  perhaps  partly  becau- 


6.4  Further  remarks  on  Born  and  Heisenberg  193 

se  of  the  different  perspectives  that  Born  and  Heisenberg  each  brought 
to  the  subject.  Born's  recent  thinking  (in  1926)  had  been  influenced  by 
Einstein's  idea  of  a  guiding  field,  while  Heisenberg's  recent  thinking  (in 
his  uncertainty  paper)  had  been  influenced  by  the  operational  approach 
to  physics. 

Concerning  the  question  of  wave  packet  collapse,  it  should  also  be 
remembered  that  Pauli  seems  to  have  played  an  important  role  in  Born 
and  Heisenberg's  thinking  at  the  time.  In  particular,  as  we  saw  in  Born's 
discussion  of  the  cloud  chamber  (sectionl6.2.ip.  Pauli  had  been  critical  of 
Heisenberg's  use  of  the  reduction  of  the  wave  packet  in  the  uncertainty 
paper  (in  a  discussion  of  classical  electron  orbits),  and  Born  —  who  by 
his  own  account  was  following  Pauli's  suggestion  —  tried  to  show  that 
such  reduction  was  unnecessary. 


7 

Locality  and  incompleteness 


7.1  Einstein's  1927  argument  for  incompleteness 

A  huge  literature  arose  out  of  the  famous  'EPR'  paper  by  Einstein,  Po- 
dolsky  and  Rosen  (1935),  entitled  'Can  quantum-mechanical  description 
of  physical  reality  be  considered  complete?'.  The  EPR  paper  argued,  on 
the  basis  of  (among  other  things)  the  absence  of  action  at  a  distance, 
that  quantum  theory  must  be  incompleteE  It  is  less  well-known  that  a 
much  simpler  argument,  leading  to  the  same  conclusion,  was  presented 
by  Einstein  eight  years  earlier  in  the  general  discussion  at  the  fifth  Solvay 
conference  (pp.  14851  ff.). 

Einstein  compares  and  contrasts  two  views  about  the  nature  of  the 
wave  function  ip,  for  the  specific  case  of  a  single  electron.  According  to 
view  I,  ip  represents  an  ensemble  (or  'cloud')  of  electrons;  while  according 
to  view  II,  tp  is  a  complete  description  of  an  individual  electron.  Einstein 
argues  that  view  II  is  incompatible  with  locality,  and  that  to  avoid 
this,  in  addition  to  tp  there  should  exist  a  localised  particle  (along  the 
lines  of  de  Broglie's  theory).  Thus,  according  to  this  reasoning,  if  one 
assumes  locality,  then  quantum  theory  (as  normally  understood  today) 
is  incomplete. 

The  conclusion  of  Einstein's  argument  in  1927  is  the  same  as  that 
of  EPR  in  1935,  even  if  the  form  of  the  argument  is  rather  different. 
Einstein  considers  electrons  striking  a  screen  with  a  small  hole  that 
diffracts  the  electron  wave,  which  on  the  far  side  of  the  screen  spreads 
out  uniformly  in  all  directions  and  strikes  a  photographic  film  in  the 
shape  of  a  hemisphere  with  large  radius  (see  Einstein's  figure).  Einstein's 
argument  against  view  II  is  then  as  follows: 

a  Note  that,  as  pointed  out  by  Fine  (1986)  and  discussed  further  by  Howard  (1990), 
the  logical  structure  of  the  EPR  paper  (which  was  actually  written  by  Podolsky) 
is  more  complicated  and  less  direct  than  Einstein  had  intended. 


194 


7.1  Einstein's  1927  argument  for  incompleteness 


195 


If  \ip\  were  simply  regarded  as  the  probability  that  at  a  certain  point  a  given 
particle  is  found  at  a  given  time,  it  could  happen  that  the  same  elementary 
process  produces  an  action  in  two  or  several  places  on  the  screen.  But  the 
interpretation,  according  to  which  \tp\2  expresses  the  probability  that  this 
particle  is  found  at  a  given  point,  assumes  an  entirely  peculiar  mechanism 
of  action  at  a  distance,  which  prevents  the  wave  continuously  distributed  in 
space  from  producing  an  action  in  two  places  on  the  screen. 

The  key  point  here  is  that,  if  there  is  no  action  at  a  distance,  and 
if  the  extended  field  -0  is  indeed  a  complete  description  of  the  physical 
situation,  then  if  the  electron  is  detected  at  a  point  P  on  the  film,  it 
could  happen  that  the  electron  is  also  detected  at  another  point  Q,  or 
indeed  at  any  point  where  \ip\2  is  non-zero.  Upon  detection  at  P,  it 
appears  that  a  'mechanism  of  action  at  a  distance'  prevents  detection 
elsewhere. 

Einstein's  argument  is  so  concise  that  its  point  is  easily  missed,  and 
one  might  well  dismiss  it  as  arising  from  an  elementary  confusion  about 
the  nature  of  probability.  (Indeed,  Bohr  comments  that  he  does  not 
'understand  what  precisely  is  the  point'  Einstein  is  making.)  For  exam- 
ple, it  might  be  thought  that,  since  we  are  talking  about  a  probability 
distribution  for  just  one  particle,  it  is  a  matter  of  pure  logic  that  only  one 
detection  can  occur@  But  this  would  be  to  beg  the  question  concerning 
the  nature  of  ip.  Einstein's  wording  above  attempts  to  convey  a  distincti- 
on between  probability  for  a  'given'  particle  (leading  to  the  possibility  of 
multiple  detections)  and  probability  for  'this''  particle  (leading  to  single 
detection  only).  The  wording  is  not  such  as  to  convey  the  distinction 
very  clearly,  perhaps  indicating  an  inadequate  translation  of  Einstein's 
German  into  French@  But  from  the  context,  the  words  'probability  that 
this  particle  is  found'  are  clearly  being  used  to  express  the  assumption 
that  in  this  case  ip  indeed  expresses  the  probability  for  just  one  particle 
detection. 

As  shown  by  Hardy  (1995),  Einstein's  argument  may  be  readily  put 
into  the  same  rigorous  form  as  the  later  EPR  argument.  (See  Norsen 
(2005)  for  a  careful  and  extensive  discussion.)  Hardy  simplifies  Einstein's 
example,  and  considers  a  single  particle  incident  on  a  beam  splitter 
(Fig.  IT- If) .  so  that  there  are  only  two  points  Pi,  P2  at  which  the  par- 
ticle might  be  detected.  One  may  then  adopt  the  following  sufficient 
condition,  given  by  EPR,  for  the  existence  of  an  element  of  reality: 

a  Cf.  Shimony  (2005). 

b  Unfortunately,  the  full  German  text  of  Einstein's  contribution  to  the  general 
discussion  seems  to  have  been  lost;  the  Einstein  archives  contain  only  a  fragment, 
consisting  of  just  the  first  four  paragraphs  (AEA  16-617.00). 


196 


Locality  and  incompleteness 


If,  without  in  any  way  disturbing  a  system,  we  can  predict  with  certainty  (i.e., 
with  probability  equal  to  unity)  the  value  of  a  physical  quantity,  then  there 
exists  an  element  of  physical  reality  corresponding  to  this  physical  quantity. 
(Einstein,  Podolsky  and  Rosen  1935,  p.  777) 

Now,  if  a  detector  is  placed  at  Pi,  either  it  will  fire  or  it  will  not.  In  either 
case,  from  the  state  of  the  detector  at  Pi  one  could  deduce  with  certainty 
whether  or  not  a  detector  placed  at  P2  would  fire.  Such  deductions  could 
be  made  for  any  individual  run  of  the  experiment.  Even  though  the 
outcome  at  Pi  cannot  be  predicted  in  advance,  in  each  case  the  outcome 
allows  us  to  infer  the  existence  of  a  definite  element  of  reality  at  P2. 
If  locality  holds,  an  element  of  reality  at  P2  cannot  be  affected  by  the 
presence  or  absence  of  a  detector  at  Pi.  Therefore,  even  if  no  detector  is 
placed  at  Pi ,  there  must  still  be  an  element  of  reality  at  P2  corresponding 
to  detection  or  no  detection  at  P2.  Since  ip  is  a  superposition  of  detection 
and  no  detection  at  P2 ,  ip  contains  nothing  corresponding  to  the  deduced 
element  of  reality  at  P2.  Therefore,  ij)  is  not  a  complete  description  of  a 
single  particleQ 

Thus,  'the  essential  points  in  the  EPR  argument  had  already  been 
made  by  Einstein  some  eight  years  earlier  at  the  fifth  Solvay  conference' 
(Hardy  1995,  p.  600). 

Einstein  concludes  that: 


In  my  opinion,  one  can  remove  this  objection  only  in  the  following  way,  that 
one  does  not  describe  the  process  solely  by  the  Schrodinger  wave,  but  that  at 
the  same  time  one  localises  the  particle  during  the  propagation.  I  think  that 
Mr  de  Broglie  is  right  to  search  in  this  direction.  If  one  works  solely  with  the 
Schrodinger  waves,  interpretation  II  of  |i/>|2  implies  to  my  mind  a  contradiction 
with  the  postulate  of  relativity. 

In  other  words,  for  Einstein,  action  at  a  distance  can  be  avoided  only  by 
admitting  that  the  wave  function  is  incomplete. 

According  to  Einstein's  argument,  quantum  theory  is  either  nonlocal 
or  incomplete.  For  the  rest  of  his  life,  Einstein  continued  to  believe 
that  locality  was  a  fundamental  principle  of  physics,  and  so  he  adhered 
to  the  view  that  quantum  theory  must  be  incomplete.  However,  fur- 
ther reasoning  by  Bell  (1964)  showed  that  any  completion  of  quantum 
theory  would  still  require  nonlocality,  in  order  to  reproduce  the  details 
of  quantum  correlations  for  entangled  states  (assuming  the  absence  of 

a  Note  that  in  this  argument  the  incompleteness  of  quantum  theory  is  inferred  from 
the  assumption  of  locality.  Cf.  Bell  (1987,  p.  143). 


7.1  Einstein's  1927  argument  for  incompleteness 


197 


P2 

n 

4^ 


Beam  splitter 


Fig.  7.1.  Hardy's  simplified  version  of  Einstein's  argument. 


backwards  causation  or  of  many  worldo).  It  then  appears  that,  whe- 
ther complete  or  incomplete,  quantum  theory  is  necessarily  nonlocal,  a 
conclusion  that  would  surely  have  been  deeply  disturbing  to  Einstein. 

It  is  ironic  that  Einstein's  (and  EPR's)  argument  started  out  by 
holding  steadfast  to  locality  and  deducing  that  quantum  theory  is  in- 
complete. But  then  the  argument,  as  carried  further  by  Bell,  led  to 
a  contradiction  between  locality  and  quantum  correlations,  so  that  in 
the  end  one  fails  to  establish  incompleteness  and  instead  establishes 
nonlocality  (with  completeness  or  incompleteness  remaining  an  open 
question) . 

a  Bell's  argument  assumes  that  there  is  no  common  cause  between  the  hidden 
variables  (defined  at  the  time  of  preparation)  and  the  settings  of  the  measuring 
apparatus.  It  also  assumes  that  there  is  no  backwards  causation,  so  that  the  hidden 
variables  are  not  affected  by  the  future  outcomes  or  apparatus  settings.  Further, 
the  derivation  of  the  Bell  inequalities  assumes  that  a  quantum  measurement  has 
only  one  outcome,  and  therefore  does  not  apply  in  the  many-worlds  interpretation. 


198 


Locality  and  incompleteness 


7.2  A  precursor:  Einstein  at  Salzburg  in  1909 

In  September  1909,  at  a  meeting  in  Salzburg,  Einstein  gave  a  lecture 
entitled  'On  the  development  of  our  views  concerning  the  nature  and 
constitution  of  radiation'  (Einstein  1909).  Einstein  summarised  what  he 
saw  as  evidence  for  the  dual  nature  of  radiation:  he  held  that  light  had 
both  particle  and  wave  aspects,  and  argued  that  classical  electromagnetic 
theory  would  have  to  be  abandoned.  It  seems  to  have  gone  unnoticed 
that  one  of  Einstein's  arguments  at  Salzburg  was  essentially  the  same 
as  the  argument  he  presented  at  the  1927  Solvay  conference  (though 
applied  to  light  quanta  instead  of  to  electrons) . 

Einstein  began  his  lecture  by  noting  that  the  phenomena  of  inter- 
ference and  diffraction  make  it  plain  that,  at  least  in  some  respects, 
light  behaves  like  a  wave.  He  then  went  on  to  describe  how,  in  other 
respects,  light  behaves  as  if  it  consisted  of  particles.  In  experiments 
involving  the  photoelectric  effect,  it  had  been  found  that  the  velocity  of 
the  photoelectrons  was  independent  of  the  radiation  intensity.  According 
to  Einstein,  this  was  more  consistent  with  'Newton's  emission  theory 
of  light'  than  with  the  wave  theory.  Einstein  also  discussed  pressure 
fluctuations  in  blackbody  radiation,  and  showed  that  these  contained 
two  terms,  which  could  be  naturally  identified  as  contributions  from 
particle-like  and  wave-like  aspects  of  the  radiation. 

Of  special  interest  here  is  another  argument  Einstein  gave  for  the  exi- 
stence of  localised  light  quanta.  Einstein  considered  a  beam  of  electrons 
('primary  cathode  rays')  incident  upon  a  metal  plate  Pi  and  producing 
X-rays  (see  Fig.  17. 2[i .  These  X-rays,  in  turn,  strike  a  second  metal  plate 
P2  leading  to  the  production  of  electrons  ('secondary  cathode  rays')  from 
P2.  Experimentally,  it  had  been  found  that  the  velocity  of  the  secondary 
electrons  had  the  same  order  of  magnitude  as  the  velocity  of  the  primary 
electrons.  Further,  the  available  evidence  suggested  that  the  velocity  of 
the  secondary  electrons  did  not  depend  at  all  on  the  distance  between  the 
plates  Pi  and  P2,  or  on  the  intensity  of  the  primary  electron  beam,  but 
only  on  the  velocity  of  the  primary  electrons.  Assuming  this  to  be  strictly 
true,  Einstein  then  asked  what  would  happen  if  the  primary  intensity 
were  so  small,  or  the  area  of  the  plate  Pi  so  small,  that  one  could  consider 
just  one  electron  striking  the  plate,  as  in  Fig.  17.21  According  to  Einstein, 

we  will  have  to  assume  that  on  P2  (as  a  result  of  the  impinging  of  the  above 
electron  on  Pi )  either  nothing  is  being  produced  or  that  a  secondary  emission 
of  an  electron  occurs  on  it  with  a  velocity  of  the  same  order  of  magnitude  as  of 
the  electron  impinging  on  Pi.  In  other  words,  the  elementary  radiation  process 
seems  to  proceed  such  that  it  does  not,  as  the  wave  theory  would  require, 


7.2  A  precursor:  Einstein  at  Salzburg  in  1909 


199 


Secondary  electron 


X-ray  wave 


Primary  electron 


Localised 

energy 

fragment? 


Metal  plate  P, 


Metal  plate  P7 


Fig.  7.2.  Figure  based  on  Einstein's  1909  argument  for  the  existence  of 
localised  light  quanta.  Assuming  the  principle  of  local  action,  the  delocalised 
X-ray  wave  can  produce  an  electron  (of  energy  comparable  to  that  of  the 
primary  electron)  in  a  small  region  of  the  second  plate  only  if,  in  addition  to 
the  wave,  there  is  a  localised  energy  fragment  propagating  in  space  from  Pi 
toP2. 


distribute  and  scatter  the  energy  of  the  primary  electron  in  a  spherical  wave 
propagating  in  all  directions.  Rather,  it  seems  that  at  least  a  large  part  of  this 
energy  is  available  at  some  location  of  P2  or  somewhere  else.  (Einstein  1909, 
English  translation,  p.  388) 

Einstein's  argument,  then,  is  that  according  to  the  wave  theory  the 
point  of  emission  of  the  X-ray  from  the  first  plate  must  be  the  source  of 
waves  spreading  out  in  space,  waves  whose  amplitude  will  spread  over 
the  region  occupied  by  the  second  plate.  And  yet,  in  the  second  plate,  all 
the  energy  of  the  X-ray  becomes  concentrated  in  the  vicinity  of  a  single 
point,  leading  to  the  production  of  an  electron  with  velocity  comparable 
to  that  of  the  primary  electron^  Einstein  concluded  from  this  that,  in 
addition  to  the  wave  spreading  from  the  point  of  emission,  there  seems 
also  to  be  a  localised  energy  fragment  propagating  from  the  point  of 


a  Cf.  Compton's  report,  p.  13391  'It  is  clearly  impossible  that  all  the  energy  of  an 
X-ray  pulse  which  has  spread  out  in  a  spherical  wave  should  spend  itself  on  this 
[small  region]'. 


200 


Locality  and  incompleteness 


emission  of  the  X-ray  wave  to  the  point  of  production  of  the  secondary 
electron.  As  Einstein  put  it:  'the  elementary  process  of  radiation  seems 
to  be  directed1. 

Now,  Einstein's  argument  of  1909  implicitly  assumes  a  principle  of 
local  action,  similar  to  that  explicitly  assumed  in  his  published  critique  of 
quantum  theory  at  the  1927  Solvay  conference.  Because  the  distance  bet- 
ween the  plates  Pi  and  P2  can  be  arbitrarily  large,  the  wave  impinging 
on  P2  can  be  spread  over  an  arbitrarily  large  area.  The  production  of  an 
electron  in  a  highly  localised  region  of  P2  can  then  be  accounted  for  only 
if,  in  addition  to  the  delocalised  wave,  there  is  a  localised  energy  fragment 
propagating  through  space  —  for  otherwise,  there  would  have  to  be  some 
mechanism  by  means  of  which  energy  spread  out  over  arbitrarily  large 
regions  of  space  suddenly  becomes  concentrated  in  the  neighbourhood 
of  a  single  point. 

It  should  be  quite  clear,  then,  that  Einstein's  1927  argument  for  the 
existence  of  localised  electrons  (accompanying  de  Broglie-Schrodinger 
waves)  was  identical  in  form  to  one  of  his  1909  arguments  for  the  exi- 
stence of  localised  light  quanta  (accompanying  electromagnetic  waves) . 
In  his  1927  argument,  the  small  hole  in  the  screen  (see  his  figure)  acts 
as  a  source  for  an  electron  wave,  which  spreads  over  the  area  of  the 
photographic  film  —  just  as,  in  the  1909  argument,  the  point  where 
the  primary  electron  strikes  the  first  plate  acts  as  a  source  for  an  X-ray 
wave,  which  spreads  over  the  area  of  the  second  plate.  Both  arguments 
depend  crucially  on  the  assumption  (implicit  in  1909,  explicit  in  1927) 
that  there  is  no  action  at  a  distance. 

As  we  shall  discuss  further  in  chapter[9l  by  1927  Einstein  had  already 
spent  over  twenty  years  trying  to  reconcile  localised  energy  quanta  — 
which  he  had  postulated  in  1905  —  with  the  wave  aspect  of  radiation. 
And  for  much  of  that  time,  he  had  been  more  or  less  alone  in  his  belief 
in  the  existence  of  such  quanta.  It  is  then  perhaps  not  so  surprising  that 
at  the  1927  Solvay  meeting  Einstein  was  able  to  raise  such  a  penetrating 
critique  of  the  view  that  the  wave  function  is  a  complete  description  of  a 
single  electron:  from  his  long  and  largely  solitary  experience  pondering 
the  wave-particle  duality  of  light,  Einstein  could  immediately  see  that,  in 
the  analogous  case  of  electron  waves,  the  principle  of  local  action  entailed 
the  existence  of  localised  particles  moving  through  space,  in  addition  to 
the  wave  function. 

The  meeting  in  Salzburg  took  place  four  years  before  Bohr  published 
his  model  of  the  atom.  After  1913,  one  might  have  simply  rephrased 
Einstein's  argument  in  terms  of  atomic  transitions.  Consider  an  atom 


7.2  A  precursor:  Einstein  at  Salzburg  in  1909 


201 


A  that  makes  a  transition  from  an  initial  stationary  state  with  energy 
Ei  to  a  final  stationary  state  with  lower  energy  Ef.  At  a  later  time, 
the  energy  Ei  —  Ef  lost  by  atom  A  may  be  wholly  absorbed  by  an 
arbitrarily  distant  atom  B,  if  there  exists  an  appropriate  transition  from 
the  initial  state  of  B  to  a  final  state  corresponding  to  an  energy  increase 
Ei  —  Ef.  This  process  may  seem  unmysterious,  if  one  imagines  atom 
A  emitting  a  photon,  or  'localised  energy  quantum',  which  somehow 
propagates  through  space  from  A  to  B.  However,  if  one  tries  to  make 
do  without  the  photon  concept,  and  represents  the  electromagnetic  field 
in  terms  of  (classical)  waves  only  —  which  spread  out  in  all  directions 
from  A  —  then  it  is  hard  to  understand  how  the  energy  lost  by  A 
may  be  wholly  transferred  to  B:  instead,  one  would  expect  the  energy  to 
spread  out  in  space  like  the  waves  themselves,  so  that  the  energy  density 
becomes  diluted. 

We  have  laboured  this  point  because  the  power  of  Einstein's  simple 
argument  seems  to  have  been  generally  missed,  not  only  in  1909,  but  also 
in  1927,  and  for  decades  afterwards.  Indeed,  it  appears  that  Einstein's 
point  did  not  start  to  become  widely  appreciated  until  the  late  twentieth 
century  (see,  again,  Norsen  (2005)). 

In  retrospect,  it  seems  quite  puzzling  that  Einstein's  simple  argument 
should  have  taken  so  long  to  be  understood.  A  perhaps  related  puzzle, 
emphasised  by  Pais  (1982,  pp.  382-6),  is  why  Einstein's  light-quantum 
hypothesis  itself  should  have  been  largely  ignored  by  so  many  physicists 
until  the  advent  of  the  Compton  effect  in  1923.  Even  after  Millikan's 
experimental  confirmation  of  Einstein's  photoelectric  equation  in  1916, 
'almost  no  one  but  Einstein  himself  would  have  anything  to  do  with 


We  do  not  wish  to  suggest,  of  course,  that  Einstein's  locality  argu- 
ment should  today  be  regarded  as  establishing  the  existence  of  localised 
photons:  for  the  implicit  premise  of  Einstein's  argument  —  the  principle 
of  locality  —  today  seems  to  be  ruled  out  by  Bell's  theorem.  Our  point, 
rather,  is  that  prior  to  Bell  (and  certainly  in  1909)  Einstein's  arguments 
were  indeed  compelling  and  should  have  been  taken  more  seriously. 


a  Though  according  to  Brillouin's  recollections  of  1962,  the  situation  was  rather 
different  in  France,  where  Einstein's  light  quantum  was  accepted  (by  Langevin, 
Perrin  and  Marie  Curie)  much  earlier  than  it  was  elsewhere  (Mehra  and 
Rechenberg  1982a,  p.  580). 


202 


Locality  and  incompleteness 


7.3  More  on  nonlocality  and  relativity 

At  the  end  of  his  long  contribution  to  the  general  discussion  (in  which 
he  argued  for  the  incompleteness  of  quantum  theory),  Einstein  objected 
to  the  multi-dimensional  representation  in  configuration  space,  on  the 
grounds  that  (p.  1487ft 

....  the  feature  of  forces  of  acting  only  at  small  spatial  distances  finds  a  less 
natural  expression  in  configuration  space  than  in  the  space  of  three  or  four 
dimensions. 

As  Einstein  himself  stated,  he  was  here  adding  another  argument  against 
what  he  called  view  II  (the  view  that  ip  is  a  complete  description  of 
an  individual  system),  a  view  that  he  claimed  is  'essentially  tied  to  a 
multi-dimensional  representation  (configuration  space)'. 

Einstein's  point  seems  to  be  that,  if  physics  is  fundamentally  grounded 
in  configuration  space,  there  will  be  no  reason  to  expect  physics  to 
be  characterised  by  local  action.  This  objection  should  be  seen  in  the 
context  of  Einstein's  concerns,  in  the  period  1926-27,  over  the  non- 
separability  of  Schrodinger's  wave  mechanics  for  many-body  systems 
(Howard  1990,  pp.  83-91;  cf.  section  [H3t ■ 

A  certain  form  of  classical  locality  survives,  of  course,  in  modern 
quantum  theory  and  quantum  field  theory,  in  the  structure  of  the  Hamil- 
tonian  or  Lagrangian,  a  structure  that  ensures  the  absence  of  controllable 
nonlocal  signals  at  the  statistical  level.  But  even  so,  we  understand  today 
that,  in  fact,  quantum  physics  is  characterised  by  nonlocality.  And  the 
nonlocality  may  indeed  be  traced  to  the  fact  that,  unlike  classical  theory, 
quantum  theory  is  not  grounded  in  ordinary  three-dimensional  space. 

The  setting  for  standard  quantum  theory  is  Hilbert  space,  whose 
tensor-product  structure  allows  for  entanglement  and  associated  nonlo- 
cal effects.  In  the  pilot-wave  formulation  of  quantum  theory,  the  setting  is 
configuration  space  (in  which  the  pilot  wave  propagates) ,  and  in  general 
the  motions  of  spatially-separated  particles  are  nonlocally  connected. 
Further,  Bell's  theorem  shows  that,  if  we  leave  aside  backwards  causation 
or  many  worlds,  then  quantum  theory  is  in  some  sense  nonlocal  under 
any  interpretation  or  formulation.  As  Ballentine  once  pointed  out,  while 
discussing  the  significance  of  Bell's  theorem: 

Perhaps  what  is  needed  is  not  an  explanation  of  nonlocality,  but  an  explanation 
of  locality.  Why,  if  locality  is  not  true,  does  it  work  so  well  in  so  many  different 
contexts?  (Ballentine  1987,  pp.  786-7) 

Einstein's  fear,  that  there  would  be  difficulties  with  locality  in  quantum 
physics,  has  certainly  been  borne  out  by  subsequent  developments.  In 


7.3  More  on  nonlocality  and  relativity 


203 


standard  quantum  theory,  there  appears  to  be  a  peaceful  but  uneasy 
'coexistence'  with  relativity.  While  from  a  pilot-wave  (or  more  generally, 
from  a  deterministic  hidden-variables)  point  of  view,  statistical  locality 
appears  as  an  accidental  feature  of  the  'quantum  equilibrium'  state 
(Valentini  1991b,  2002a). 

In  his  main  contribution  to  the  general  discussion  Dirac  (p.  I49ip  also 
notes  that  'the  general  theory  of  the  wave  function  in  many-dimensional 
space  necessarily  involves  the  abandonment  of  relativity',  but  he  suggests 
that  this  problem  might  be  solved  by  'quantising  3-dimensional  waves' 
(that  is,  by  what  we  would  now  call  quantum  field  theory).  And  de 
Broglie  in  his  report,  when  considering  the  pilot- wave  dynamics  of  many- 
body  systems,  notes  that  unlike  in  the  case  of  a  single  particle  'it  does  not 
appear  easy  to  find  a  wave  <3>  that  would  define  the  motion  of  the  system 
taking  Relativity  into  account'  (p.  1386)1 .  a  difficulty  that  has  persisted  in 
pilot-wave  theory  right  up  to  the  present  day  (see,  for  example,  Berndl 
et  al.  (1996)). 

In  1927,  then,  there  was  a  fairly  broad  recognition  that  the  funda- 
mental use  of  configuration  space  did  not  bode  well  for  consistency  with 
relativity. 


8 

Time,  determinism,  and  the  spacetime 
framework 


8.1  Time  in  quantum  theory 

By  1920,  the  spectacular  confirmation  of  general  relativity,  during  the 
solar  eclipse  of  1919,  had  made  Einstein  a  household  name.  Not  only 
did  relativity  theory  (both  special  and  general)  upset  the  long-received 
Newtonian  ideas  of  space  and  time,  it  also  stimulated  a  widespread 
'operationalist'  attitude  to  physical  theories.  Physical  quantities  came  to 
be  seen  as  inextricably  interwoven  with  our  means  of  measuring  them, 
in  the  sense  that  any  limits  on  our  means  of  measurement  were  taken 
to  imply  limits  on  the  definability,  or  'meaningfulness',  of  the  physical 
quantities  themselves.  In  particular,  Einstein's  relativity  paper  of  1905 
—  with  its  operational  analysis  of  simultaneity  —  came  to  be  widely 
regarded  as  a  model  for  the  new  operationalist  approach  to  physics. 

Not  surprisingly,  then,  as  the  puzzles  continued  to  emerge  from  ato- 
mic experiments,  in  the  1920s  a  number  of  workers  suggested  that  the 
concepts  of  space  and  time  would  require  still  further  revision  in  the 
atomic  domain.  Thus,  Campbell  (1921,  1926)  suggested  that  the  puzzles 
in  atomic  physics  could  be  removed  if  the  concept  of  time  was  given  a 
purely  statistical  significance:  'time,  like  temperature,  is  a  purely  sta- 
tistical conception,  having  no  meaning  except  as  applied  to  statistical 
aggregates'  (quoted  in  Beller  1999,  p.  97).  In  an  operationalist  vein, 
Campbell  considered  'clocks'  based  on  (random)  radioactive  decays.  He 
suggested  that  it  might  be  possible  to  construct  a  theory  that  did  not 
involve  time  at  all,  and  in  which  'all  the  experiments  on  which  the 
prevailing  temporal  conceptions  are  based  can  be  described  in  terms  of 
statistics'  (quoted  in  Beller  1999,  p.  98).  On  the  other  hand,  Senftleben 
(1923)  asserted  that  Planck's  constant  h  set  limits  to  the  definability  of 
the  concepts  of  space  and  time,  and  concluded  that  spacetime  must  be 


204 


8.1  Time  in  quantum  theory 


205 


discontinuous.  According  to  Beller  (1999,  pp.  96-101),  both  Campbell 
and  Senftleben  had  a  significant  influence  on  Heisenberg  in  his  formu- 
lation of  the  uncertainty  principle^  Certainly,  in  a  letter  to  Pauli  of  28 
October  1926,  Heisenberg  expresses  views  very  similar  to  Campbell's 
(Pauli  1979,  p.  350): 

I  have  for  all  that  a  hope  in  a  later  solution  of  more  or  less  the  following 
kind  (but  one  should  not  say  something  like  this  aloud):  that  space  and  time 
are  really  only  statistical  concepts,  such  as,  say,  temperature,  pressure  etc. 
in  a  gas.  I  mean  that  spatial  and  temporal  concepts  are  meaningless  for  one 
corpuscle  and  that  they  make  more  and  more  sense  the  more  particles  are 
present.  I  often  try  to  get  further  in  this  direction,  but  until  now  it  will  not 
work. 

Be  that  as  it  may,  at  the  1927  Solvay  conference,  in  their  report  on 
quantum  mechanics,  Born  and  Heisenberg  seem  to  express  the  remarka- 
ble view  that  temporal  changes  do  not  occur  at  all  for  closed  systems, 
and  that  the  time-dependent  Schrodinger  equation  emerges  only  as  an 
effective  and  approximate  description  for  subsystems.  How  these  views 
related  to  Campbell's,  or  indeed  if  they  did  at  all,  is  not  clear. 

In  their  section  II,  'Physical  interpretation',  Born  and  Heisenberg 
begin  with  the  following  statement  (p.  [419]): 

The  most  noticeable  defect  of  the  original  matrix  mechanics  consists  in  the 
fact  that  at  first  it  appears  to  give  information  not  about  actual  phenomena, 

but  rather  only  about  possible  states  and  processes  it  says  nothing  about 

when  a  given  state  is  present  ....  matrix  mechanics  deals  only  with  closed 
periodic  systems,  and  in  these  there  are  indeed  no  changes.  In  order  to  have 
true  processes  ....  one  must  direct  one's  attention  to  a  part  of  the  system  

From  a  modern  point  of  view,  the  original  matrix  mechanics  did  not 
contain  the  notion  of  a  general  state  |\&)  for  a  system  (not  even  a  static, 
Heisenberg-picture  state).  The  only  states  that  appeared  in  the  theory 
were  the  stationary  states  \Ei)  (cf.  chapter[3|).  Even  as  regards  stationary 
states,  there  seems  to  have  been  no  notion  of  initial  state  ('it  says 
nothing  about  when  a  given  state  is  present').  Instead,  the  matrices 
provided  a  collective  representation  of  all  the  energy  eigenstates  of  a 
closed  system  with  Hamiltonian  H.  In  modern  notation,  the  matrices 
consisted  of  matrix  elements  of  (Heisenberg-picture)  observables  = 
e(i/h)HtQ^e-{i/h)Ht  m  the  energy  basis: 

(Ei\  n(t)  \E,)  =       n(0)  \ES)  e«/ft)(B.-Bi)t  .  (l) 

a  For  Campbell's  influence  on  Bohr's  formulation  of  complementarity,  see  Beller 
(1999,  pp.  135-7)  and  also  Mehra  and  Rechenberg  (2000,  pp.  189-90). 


206  Time,  determinism,  and  spacetime  framework 

As  noted  in  chapter  [3J  the  formal  mathematics  of  matrix  mechanics 
then  seems  to  represent  an  atomic  system  somewhat  in  the  manner  of 
the  Bohr-Kramers-Slater  (BKS)  theory  (cf.  chapter  [9]),  with  each  matrix 
element  corresponding  to  a  virtual  oscillator  of  frequency  Vij  =  {Ei  — 
Ej)/h. 

The  matrix  formalism,  without  a  notion  of  initial  state,  amounts  to 
a  static  description^]  However,  Born  and  Heisenberg  add  an  intuitive 
physical  picture  to  the  formalism,  to  the  effect  that  a  subsystem  of  a 
larger  (closed)  system  is  in  fact  in  one  stationary  state  at  any  one  time 
and  performs  random,  indeterministic  'quantum  jumps'  between  such 
states  (cf.  chapter  [3j. 

Born  and  Heisenberg  then  go  on  to  say  that  '[t]he  clumsiness  of  the 
matrix  theory  in  the  description  of  processes  developing  in  time  can 
be  avoided'  (p.  142 1|)  by  introducing  what  we  would  now  call  the  time- 
dependent  Schrodinger  equation.  Here,  it  might  appear  that  their  view  is 
that  the  mentioned  'defect  of  the  original  matrix  mechanics'  is  removed 
by  generalisation  to  a  time-dependent  theory.  However,  they  add  (p.!421|l 
that: 

Essentially,  the  introduction  of  time  as  a  numerical  variable  reduces  to  thinking 
of  the  system  under  consideration  as  coupled  to  another  one  and  neglecting 
the  reaction  on  the  latter.  But  this  formalism  is  very  convenient   

These  words  give,  instead,  the  impression  that  the  time-dependent  theo- 
ry is  regarded  as  only  emergent  in  some  approximation;  the  time-dependent 
Schrodinger  equation  seems  to  have  no  fundamental  status. 

Even  so,  this  'convenient'  formalism  'leads  to  a  further  development 
of  the  statistical  view'.  They  include  a  time-dependent  external  per- 
turbation in  the  (time-dependent)  Schrodinger  equation,  and  show  how 
to  calculate  the  time  development  of  any  initial  wave  function.  Born 
and  Heisenberg  then  argue  that,  following  Bohr's  original  (1913)  theory 
of  stationary  states,  a  system  can  be  in  only  one  energy  eigenstate  at 
any  one  time,  leading  to  the  interpretation  of  a  superposition  \^f)  = 
J2n  cn(t)  \Ei)  as  a  statistical  mixture,  with  state  probabilities  |c„|2.  The 
time  evolution  of  the  wave  function  then  describes  transition  probabili- 
ties from  initial  to  final  stationary  states.  This  might  seem  clear  enough, 
but  a  difficulty  is  then  raised  concerning  the  interpretation  of  a  case 
where  the  initial  wave  function  is  already  a  superposition,  resulting  in 
'interference  of  probabilities'  at  later  times  (see  section IB.l, 2ft, 


a  Even  if  one  added  a  notion  of  initial  state,  because  the  only  allowed  states  are 
energy  eigenstates  the  description  of  a  closed  system  would  still  be  static. 


8.1  Time  in  quantum  theory 


207 


Let  us  now  consider  what  Schrodinger  had  to  say,  in  his  report  on  wave 
mechanics,  concerning  time  in  quantum  theory.  (De  Broglie's  report 
does  not  contain  any  special  remarks  on  this  subject.)  In  his  report 
Schrodinger  first  presents  (or  derives  from  a  variational  principle)  what 
we  would  now  call  the  time-independent  Schrodinger  equation  for  a 
nonrelativistic  many-body  system  with  coordinates  q±,  q2, qn-  After 
noting  that  the  eigenfunctions  tpk ,  with  eigenvalues  ,  may  be  identified 
with  Bohr's  stationary  states,  Schrodinger  addresses  the  question  of 
time.  He  first  points  out  (p. [450])  that  the  time- independent  theory  might 
be  regarded  as  sufficient,  providing  as  it  does  a  description  of  stationary 
states,  together  with  expressions  for  jump  probabilities  between  them: 

One  can  take  the  view  that  one  should  be  content  in  principle  with  what  has 

been  said  so  far         The  single  stationary  states  of  Bohr's  theory  would  then 

in  a  way  be  described  by  the  eigenfunctions  ij)k,  which  do  not  contain  time  at 
all.  One  ....  can  form  from  them  ....  quantities  that  can  be  aptly  taken  to  be 
jump  probabilities  between  the  single  stationary  states. 

Here,  the  jump  probabilities  are  to  be  obtained  from  matrix  elements 
such  as  (in  modern  notation) 


which  can  all  be  calculated  from  the  eigenfunctions  ipk- 

Schrodinger  suggests  further  that  interacting  systems  could  be  treated 

in  the  same  way,  by  regarding  them  as  one  single  system. 

Schrodinger  then  goes  on  to  discuss  this  point  of  view  and  its  relation 

with  the  ideas  of  Campbell  (p.  I450[) : 

On  this  view  the  time  variable  would  play  absolutely  no  role  in  an  isolated 
system  —  a  possibility  to  which  N.  Campbell  ....  has  recently  pointed.  Limiting 
our  attention  to  an  isolated  system,  we  would  not  perceive  the  passage  of  time 

in  it  any  more  than  we  can  notice  its  possible  progress  in  space  What  we 

would  notice  would  be  merely  a  sequence  of  discontinuous  transitions,  so  to 
speak  a  cinematic  image,  but  without  the  possibility  of  comparing  the  time 
intervals  between  the  transitions. 

According  to  these  ideas,  then,  time  does  not  exist  at  the  level  of  isolated 
atomic  systems,  and  our  usual  (macroscopically-defined)  time  emerges 
only  from  the  statistics  of  large  numbers  of  transitions  between  statio- 
nary states.  As  Schrodinger  puts  it: 

Only  secondarily,  and  in  fact  with  increasing  precision  the  more  extended 
the  system,  would  a  statistical  definition  of  time  result  from  counting  the 
transitions  taking  place  (Campbell's  'radioactive  clock').  Of  course  then  one 


208  Time,  determinism,  and  spacetime  framework 


cannot  understand  the  jump  probability  in  the  usual  way  as  the  probability  of  a 
transition  calculated  relative  to  unit  time.  Rather,  a  single  jump  probability  is 
then  utterly  meaningless;  only  with  two  possibilities  for  jumps,  the  probability 
that  the  one  may  happen  before  the  other  is  equal  to  its  jump  probability 
divided  by  the  sum  of  the  two. 

Schrodinger  claims  that  this  is  the  only  consistent  view  in  a  theory 
with  quantum  jumps,  asserting  that  '[e]ither  all  changes  in  nature  are 
discontinuous  or  not  a  single  one'. 

Having  sketched  a  timeless  view  of  isolated  systems  with  discrete 
quantum  jumps,  Schrodinger  states  that  such  a  discrete  viewpoint  'still 
poses  great  difficulties',  and  he  goes  on  to  develop  his  own  theory  of 
time-dependent  quantum  states,  in  which  (continuous)  time  evolution 
does  play  a  fundamental  role  even  at  the  level  of  a  single  atomic  system. 
Here,  a  general  time-dependent  wave  function  ip(q,  t)  —  a  solution  of  the 
time-dependent  Schrodinger  equation,  with  arbitrary  initial  conditions 
—  is  regarded  as  the  description  of  the  continuous  time  development  of 
a  single  isolated  system. 

From  a  contemporary  perspective,  it  is  clear  that  quantum  theory  as 
we  know  it  today  is  rather  less  radical  than  some  expected  it  to  be  in  the 
1920s,  especially  concerning  the  concepts  of  space  and  time.  Both  non- 
relativistic  quantum  mechanics,  and  relativistic  quantum  field  theory, 
take  place  on  a  classical  spacetime  background;  time  and  space  are  conti- 
nuous and  well-defined,  even  for  closed  systems.  The  evolution  operator 
U(t,to)  provides  a  continuous  time  evolution  \^f(t))  —  U(t,  to)  |^(io)) 
for  any  initial  quantum  state,  with  respect  to  an  'external'  time  para- 
meter t  (even  in  quantum  field  theory,  in  a  given  inertial  frame).  While 
Schrodinger's  and  de  Broglie's  interpretations  of  the  wave  function  did 
not  gain  widespread  acceptance,  their  view  of  time  in  quantum  theory 
coincides  with  the  one  generally  accepted  todayB 

In  contrast,  the  views  on  time  expressed  by  Born  and  Heisenberg  are 
somewhat  reminiscent  of  views  put  forward  by  some  later  workers  in  the 
context  of  canonical  quantum  gravity.  There,  the  wave  functional  ^[wf?] 
on  the  space  of  3-geometries  contains  no  explicit  time  parameter, 
and  obeys  a  'timeless'  Schrodinger  equation  H.^  —  0  (the  Wheeler- 
DeWitt  equation,  with  Hamiltonian  density  operator  TL).  It  is  claimed 

a  We  are  of  course  referring  here  to  the  standard  theories  as  presented  in  textbooks. 
The  literature  contains  a  number  of  proposals,  along  operational  lines,  calling 
for  a  'quantum  spacetime'  that  incorporates  quantum-theoretical  limits  on  the 
construction  of  rods  and  clocks.  A  statistical  approach  to  causal  structure, 
somewhat  reminiscent  of  Campbell's  statistical  view  of  time,  has  recently  been 
proposed  by  Hardy  (2005). 


8.2  Determinism  and  probability 


209 


that  'time'  emerges  only  phenomenologically,  through  the  analysis  of 
interaction  with  quantum  clocks,  or  by  the  extraction  of  an  effective 
time  variable  from  the  3-metric  (the  radius  of  an  expanding  universe 
being  a  popular  choice)  (DeWitt  1967).  However,  closer  analysis  reveals 
a  series  of  difficulties  with  such  proposals:  for  example,  it  is  difficult  to 
ensure  the  emergence  of  a  well-behaved  time  parameter  t  such  that  only 
one  physical  state  is  associated  with  each  value  of  t.  (See,  for  example, 
Unruh  and  Wald  (1989).)  Despite  some  50  years  of  effort,  including  the 
technical  progress  made  in  recent  years  using  'loop'  variables  to  solve 
the  equations  (Rovelli  2004V  the  'problem  of  time'  in  canonical  quantum 
gravity  remains  unresolved  O 


8.2  Determinism  and  probability 

In  the  published  text,  the  first  section  of  the  general  discussion  bears  the 
title  'Causality,  determinism,  probability'.  Lorentz's  opening  remarks 
are  mainly  concerned  with  the  importance  of  having  a  clear  and  definite 
picture  of  physical  processes  (see  section  [531).  He  ends  by  addressing  the 
question  of  determinism  (p.  I478[) : 

....  I  think  that  this  notion  of  probability  should  be  placed  at  the  end,  and 
as  a  conclusion,  of  theoretical  considerations,  and  not  as  an  a  priori  axiom, 
though  I  may  well  admit  that  this  indeterminacy  corresponds  to  experimental 
possibilities.  I  would  always  be  able  to  keep  my  deterministic  faith  for  the 
fundamental  phenomena  

Lorentz  seems  to  demand  that  the  fundamental  phenomena  be  deter- 
ministic, and  that  indeterminism  should  be  merely  emergent  or  effective. 
Probabilities  should  not  be  axiomatic,  and  some  theoretical  explanation 
is  needed  for  the  experimental  limitations  encountered  in  practice.  This 
view  would  nowadays  be  usually  associated  with  deterministic  hidden- 
variables  theories,  such  as  de  Broglie's  pilot-wave  dynamics  (though  it 
might  also  be  associated  with  the  many-worlds  interpretation  of  Ever- 
ett). 

De  Broglie's  basic  equations  —  the  guidance  equation  and  Schro- 
dinger  equation  —  are  certainly  deterministic.  De  Broglie  in  his  report, 
and  Brillouin  in  the  subsequent  discussion,  give  examples  of  how  these 
equations  determine  the  trajectories  (during  interference  and  diffraction, 
atomic  transitions,  and  elastic  scattering).  As  regards  probabilities,  de 

a  Barbour  (1994a, b)  has  proposed  a  timeless  formulation  of  classical  and  quantum 
physics.  As  applied  to  quantum  gravity,  the  viability  of  Barbour's  scheme  seems 
to  depend  on  unproven  properties  of  the  Wheeler-DeWitt  equation. 


210  Time,  determinism,  and  spacetime  framework 


Broglie  pointed  out  that  if  an  ensemble  of  systems  with  initial  wave 
function  'J'n  begins  with  a  Born-rule  distribution  Pq  —  I'J'ol2,  then  as 
\&  evolves,  the  system  dynamics  will  maintain  the  distribution  P  = 
l^j2  at  later  times.  However,  nothing  was  said  about  how  the  initial 
distribution  might  arise  in  the  first  place.  Subsequent  work  has  shown 
that,  in  de  Broglie's  theory,  the  Born-rule  distribution  can  arise  from  the 
complex  evolution  generated  by  the  dynamics  itself,  much  as  thermal 
distributions  arise  in  classical  dynamics,  thereby  providing  an  example 
of  the  kind  of  theoretical  explanation  that  Lorentz  wished  for  (Bohm 
1953;  Valentini  1991a,  1992,  2001;  Valentini  and  Westman  2005)0  On 
this  view,  the  initial  ensemble  considered  by  de  Broglie  corresponds  to  a 
special  'equilibrium'  state  analogous  to  thermal  equilibrium  in  classical 
physics. 

Lorentz  goes  on  to  say  (p.  1478(1 : 

Could  a  deeper  mind  not  be  aware  of  the  motions  of  these  electrons?  Could  one 
not  keep  determinism  by  making  it  an  object  of  belief?  Must  one  necessarily 
elevate  indeterminism  to  a  principle? 

Here,  again,  we  now  know  that  de  Broglie's  theory  provides  an  exam- 
ple of  what  Lorentz  seems  to  have  had  in  mind.  For  in  principle,  the 
theory  allows  the  existence  of  'nonequilibrium'  distributions  P  ^  \^\2 
(Valentini  1991b,  1992),  just  as  classical  physics  allows  the  existence 
of  non-thermal  distributions  (not  uniformly  distributed  on  the  energy 
surface  in  phase  space) .  Such  distributions  violate  many  of  the  standard 
quantum  constraints;  in  particular,  an  experimenter  possessing  particles 
with  a  distribution  P  much  narrower  than  \^\2  would  be  able  to  use  those 
particles  to  perform  measurements  on  ordinary  systems  more  accurate 
than  normally  allowed  by  the  uncertainty  principle;  an  experimenter 
possessing  such  'nonequilibrium  particles'  would  in  fact  be  able  to  use 
them  to  observe  the  (normally  invisible)  details  of  the  trajectories  of 
ordinary  particles  (Valentini  2002b;  Pearle  and  Valentini  2006).  From 
this  point  of  view,  there  is  indeed  no  need  to  'elevate  indeterminism  to 
a  principle':  for  the  current  experimental  limitations  (embodied  in  the 

a  Bohm  (1953)  considered  the  particular  case  of  an  ensemble  of  two-level  molecules 
and  argued  that  external  perturbations  would  drive  it  to  quantum  equilibrium. 
A  general  argument  for  relaxation  was  not  given,  however,  and  soon  afterwards 
Bohm  and  Vigier  (1954)  modified  the  dynamics  by  adding  random  fluctuations 
that  drive  any  system  to  equilibrium.  This  move  to  a  stochastic  theory  seems 
unnecessary:  a  general  if-theorem  argument,  analogous  to  the  classical  coarse- 
graining  i?-theorem,  has  been  given  (Valentini  1991a,  1992,  2001),  and  numerical 
simulations  show  a  very  efficient  relaxation  —  with  an  exponential  decay  of  the 
coarse-grained  H-function  —  on  the  basis  of  the  purely  deterministic  de  Broglie- 
Bohm  theory  (Valentini  and  Westman  2005). 


8.2  Determinism  and  probability 


211 


uncertainty  principle)  are  not  built  into  the  laws  of  physics;  rather,  they 
are  merely  contingent  features  of  the  equilibrium  state  P  —  l^l2. 

In  the  general  discussion,  as  we  saw  in  section  16,31  Dirac  expressed 
the  view  that  quantum  outcomes  occur  when  nature  makes  a  choice,  a 
view  countered  by  Heisenberg  who  claimed  that  the  'choice'  is  in  some 
sense  really  made  by  the  observer.  As  Lorentz  noted  at  the  end  of  this 
exchange,  the  view  that  nature  makes  a  choice  amounts  to  a  fundamen- 
tal indeterminism,  while  at  the  same  time,  Dirac  and  Heisenberg  had 
radically  different  views  about  the  meaning  of  this  indeterminism. 

Dirac  also  gave  an  argument  for  why  quantum  theory  had  to  be 
indeterministic.  In  his  view,  the  indeterminism  was  necessary  because 
of  the  inevitable  disturbance  involved  in  setting  up  an  initial  quantum 
state  (pp.  [492] f.): 

I  should  now  like  to  express  my  views  on  determinism  and  the  nature  of 

the  numbers  appearing  in  the  calculations  of  the  quantum  theory    In 

the  classical  theory  one  starts  from  certain  numbers  describing  completely  the 
initial  state  of  the  system,  and  deduces  other  numbers  that  describe  completely 
the  final  state.  This  deterministic  theory  applies  only  to  an  isolated  system. 

But,  as  Professor  Bohr  has  pointed  out,  an  isolated  system  is  by  definition 
unobservable.  One  can  observe  the  system  only  by  disturbing  it  and  observing 
its  reaction  to  the  disturbance.  Now  since  physics  is  concerned  only  with 
observable  quantities  the  deterministic  classical  theory  is  untenable. 

Dirac's  argument  seems  unsatisfactory.  First  of  all,  as  a  general  philoso- 
phical point,  the  claim  that  'physics  is  concerned  only  with  observable 
quantities'  is  not  realistic.  As  is  well  known  to  philosophers  of  science 
as  well  as  to  experimentalists,  observation  is  'theory-laden':  in  order 
to  carry  out  observations  (or  measurements)  some  body  of  theory  is 
required  in  order  to  know  how  to  carry  out  a  correct  observation  (for 
example,  some  knowledge  is  required  of  how  the  system  being  measured 
interacts  with  the  apparatus,  in  order  to  design  a  correctly  functioning 
apparatus).  Thus,  some  body  of  theory  is  necessarily  conceptually  prior 
to  observation,  and  it  is  logically  impossible  to  base  physical  theory  on 
'observables'  only.  More  specifically,  Dirac  claims  that  classical  determi- 
nism is  untenable  because  of  the  disturbance  involved  in  observing  a  sy- 
stem: but  there  are  many  cases  in  classical  physics  where  experimenters 
can  use  their  knowledge  of  the  interactions  involved  to  compensate  for 
the  disturbance  caused  by  the  measurement.  Disturbance  per  se  cannot 
be  a  reason  for  indeterminism. 

It  may  well  be  that  Dirac  had  in  mind  the  kind  of  'irreducible'  or 
'uncontrollable'  disturbance  that  textbooks  commonly  associate  with 


212  Time,  determinism,  and  spacetime  framework 


the  uncertainty  principle.  However,  it  is  interesting  that,  in  fact,  Dirac 
goes  on  to  say  that  the  disturbances  applied  by  an  experimenter  are 
under  his  control  (p. 0931  Dime's  italics): 

In  the  quantum  theory  one  also  begins  with  certain  numbers  and  deduces 

others  from  them         The  disturbances  that  an  experimenter  applies  to  a 

system  to  observe  it  are  directly  under  his  control,  and  are  acts  of  freewill  by 
him.  It  is  only  the  numbers  that  describe  these  acts  of  freewill  that  can  be  taken 
as  initial  numbers  for  a  calculation  in  the  quantum  theory.  Other  numbers 
describing  the  initial  state  of  the  system  are  inherently  unobservable,  and  do 
not  appear  in  the  quantum  theoretical  treatment. 

The  'disturbances'  refer  to  the  experimental  operations  that  the  expe- 
rimenter chooses  to  apply  to  the  system,  and  indeed  these  are  normally 
regarded  as  freely  controlled  by  the  experimenter  (at  least  in  some 
effective  sense).  The  sense  in  which  the  word  'disturbance'  is  being 
used  here  is  quite  different  from  the  textbook  sense  of  uncontrollable 
disturbance  associated  with  quantum  uncertainty.  Dirac  seems  to  regard 
quantum  numbers,  or  eigenvalues,  as  representing  the  extent  to  which  an 
experimenter  can  controllably  manipulate  a  system.  Macroscopic  opera- 
tions are  under  our  control,  and  through  these  we  can  prepare  an  initial 
state  specified  by  particular  quantum  numbers.  For  Dirac,  these  initial 
numbers  represent  'acts  of  freewill'  in  the  form  of  laboratory  operations. 
(The  final  remark  about  'other  numbers'  that  are  unobservable,  and 
that  do  not  appear  in  quantum  theory,  is  intriguing,  and  might  be  taken 
as  suggesting  that  there  are  other  degrees  of  freedom  that  cannot  be 
controlled  by  us.) 

A  view  quite  different  from  Dirac's  is  expressed  by  Born  at  the  very 
end  of  the  general  discussion.  According  to  Born,  the  constraints  on 
the  preparation  of  an  initial  quantum  state  are  not  what  distinguishes 
quantum  from  classical  mechanics,  for  in  classical  physics  too  (p.  I519|l 

....  the  precision  with  which  the  future  location  of  a  particle  can  be  predicted 
depends  on  the  accuracy  of  the  measurement  of  the  initial  location. 

For  Born,  the  difference  rather  lies  in  the  law  of  propagation  of  proba- 
bility packets: 

It  is  then  not  in  this  that  the  manner  of  description  of  quantum  mechanics, 
by  wave  packets,  is  different  from  classical  mechanics.  It  is  different  because 
the  laws  of  propagation  of  packets  are  slightly  different  in  the  two  cases. 


8.3  Visualis ability  and  the  spacetime  framework  213 


8.3  Visualisability  and  the  spacetime  framework 

With  hindsight,  from  a  contemporary  perspective,  perhaps  the  most 
characteristic  feature  of  quantum  physics  is  the  apparent  absence  of 
visualisable  processes  taking  place  within  a  spacetime  framework.  From 
Bell's  theorem,  it  appears  that  any  attempt  to  provide  a  complete  de- 
scription of  quantum  systems  (within  a  single  world)  will  require  some 
form  of  nonlocality,  leading  to  difficulties  with  relativistic  spacetime.  At 
the  time  of  writing,  we  possess  only  one  hidden- variables  theory  of  broad 
scope  —  the  pilot-wave  theory  of  de  Broglie  and  Bohm  —  and  in  this 
theory  there  is  a  field  on  configuration  space  (not  3-space)  that  affects 
the  motion  of  quantum  systems|3  Arguably,  then,  pilot- wave  theory  does 
not  really  fit  into  a  spacetime  framework:  the  physics  is  grounded  in 
configuration  space,  and  the  interactions  encoded  in  the  pilot  wave  take 
place  outside  of  3-space.  Instead  of  a  nonlocal  hidden-variables  theory, 
one  might  prefer  to  have  a  complete  account  of  quantum  behaviour  in 
terms  of  many  worlds:  there  too,  one  leaves  behind  ordinary  spacetime  as 
a  basic  framework  for  physics,  since  the  totality  of  what  is  real  cannot  be 
mapped  onto  a  single  spacetime  geometry.  Generally  speaking,  whatever 
one's  view  of  quantum  theory  today,  the  usual  spacetime  framework 
seems  too  restrictive,  and  unable  to  accomodate  (at  least  in  a  natural 
way)  thephenomena  associated  with  quantum  superposition  and  entan- 
glement]^ 

We  saw  in  section  18.11  that  the  quantum  or  matrix  mechanics  of 
Born  and  Heisenberg  certainly  did  not  provide  an  account  of  physical 
systems  in  a  spacetime  framework.  In  contrast,  the  initial  practical 
success  of  Schrodinger's  wave  mechanics  in  1926  had  led  some  workers 
to  think  that  an  understanding  in  terms  of  (wave  processes  in)  space 
and  time  might  be  possible  after  all.  The  resulting  tension  between 
Schrodinger  on  the  one  hand,  and  Bohr,  Heisenberg  and  Pauli  on  the 
other  (in  the  year  preceding  the  Solvay  meeting)  has  been  described  at 
length  in  section  14.61  where  we  saw  that  for  Schrodinger  the  notion 
of  'Anschaulichkeit'  —  in  the  sense  of  visualisability  in  a  spacetime 
framework  —  played  a  key  role. 

The  clash  between  quantum  physics  and  the  spacetime  framework 
was  a  central  theme  of  the  fifth  Solvay  conference.  There  was  a  notable 

a  As  already  mentioned  in  section  15.2.11  attempts  to  construct  hidden-variables 
theories  without  an  ontological  wave  function,  along  the  lines  pioneered  by  Fenyes 
(1952)  and  Nelson  (1966),  seem  to  fail  (Wallstrom  1994;  Pearle  and  Valentini 
2006). 

b  A  possible  exception  here  is  some  version  of  quantum  theory  with  dynamical  wave 
function  collapse. 


214  Time,  determinism,  and  spacetime  framework 


tension  between  those  participants  who  still  hoped  for  a  spacetime-based 
theory  and  those  who  insisted  that  no  such  theory  was  possible.  These 
differences  are  especially  apparent  in  the  general  discussion  where,  as  we 
have  already  discussed  in  section  [731  difficulties  were  raised  concerning 
locality  and  relativity. 

Lorentz,  in  his  opening  remarks  at  the  first  session  of  the  general 
discussion,  seems  to  set  the  tone  for  one  side  of  the  debate,  by  speaking 
in  favour  of  space  and  time  as  a  basic  framework  for  physics  (p.  1476(1 : 

We  wish  to  make  a  representation  of  the  phenomena,  to  form  an  image  of 
them  in  our  minds.  Until  now,  we  have  always  wanted  to  form  these  images 
by  means  of  the  ordinary  notions  of  time  and  space.  These  notions  are  perhaps 
innate;  in  any  case,  they  have  developed  from  our  personal  experience,  by  our 
daily  observations.  For  me,  these  notions  are  clear  and  I  confess  that  I  should 
be  unable  to  imagine  physics  without  these  notions.  The  image  that  I  wish  to 
form  of  phenomena  must  be  absolutely  sharp  and  definite,  and  it  seems  to  me 
that  we  can  form  such  an  image  only  in  the  framework  of  space  and  time. 

Lorentz 's  committment  to  processes  taking  place  in  space  and  time 
was  shared  by  de  Broglie  and  Schrodinger,  even  though  both  men  had 
found  themselves  unable  to  avoid  working  in  terms  of  configuration 
space.  As  we  saw  in  section  12.41  in  his  report  de  Broglie  presented 
his  pilot-wave  dynamics,  with  a  guiding  field  in  configuration  space, 
only  as  a  makeshift:  he  hoped  that  his  pilot-wave  dynamics  would  turn 
out  to  be  an  effective  theory  only,  and  that  underlying  it  would  be  a 
theory  of  wave  fields  in  3-space  with  singularities  representing  particle 
motion  (the  double-solution  theory).  Schrodinger,  too,  despite  working 
with  a  many-body  wave  equation  in  configuration  space,  hoped  that  the 
physical  content  of  his  theory  could  be  ultimately  interpreted  in  terms 
of  processes  taking  place  in  3-space  (see  chapter  |4|). 

In  contrast,  some  of  the  other  participants,  in  particular  Bohr  and 
Pauli,  welcomed  —  indeed  insisted  upon  —  the  break  with  the  spacetime 
framework.  As  Bohr  put  it  in  the  general  discussion,  after  Einstein's 
remarks  on  locality  and  completeness  (p.  1488(1 : 

The  whole  foundation  for  [a]  causal  spacetime  description  is  taken  away  by 
quantum  theory,  for  it  is  based  on  [the]  assumption  of  observations  without 
interference. 

In  support  of  Bohr's  contention,  Pauli  (pp.[489]f.)  provided  an  intriguing 
argument  to  the  effect  that  interactions  between  particles  cannot  be 
understood  in  a  spacetime  framework.  Specifically,  Pauli  based  his  argu- 
ment on  the  quantum-theoretical  account  of  the  long-range  interactions 
known  as  van  der  Waals  forces. 


8.3  Visualis ability  and  the  spacetime  framework  215 


Pauli  begins  his  argument  by  saying  (in  agreement  with  Bohr)  that 
the  use  of  multi-dimensional  configuration  space  is 

only  a  technical  means  of  formulating  mathematically  the  laws  of  mutual  acti- 
on between  several  particles,  actions  which  certainly  do  not  allow  themselves 
to  be  described  simply,  in  the  ordinary  way,  in  space  and  time. 

Here,  on  the  one  hand,  configuration  space  has  only  mathematical  si- 
gnificance. But  on  the  other  hand,  as  Einstein  feared  (see  section  [TT3J) , 
there  is  according  to  Pauli  no  explicit  account  of  local  action  in  space 
and  time.  Pauli  adds  that  the  multi-dimensional  method  might  one  day 
be  replaced  with  what  we  would  now  call  quantum  field  theory.  He  then 
goes  on  to  say  that,  in  any  case,  in  accordance  with  Bohr's  point  of 
view,  no  matter  what  'technical  means'  are  used  to  describe  'the  mutual 
actions  of  several  particles',  such  actions  'cannot  be  described  in  the 
ordinary  manner  in  space  and  time'  (p.  1489(1 . 

Pauli  then  illustrates  his  point  with  an  example.  He  considers  two 
widely-separated  hydrogen  atoms,  each  in  their  ground  state,  and  asks 
what  their  'energy  of  mutual  action'  might  be.  According  to  the  usual 
description  in  space  and  time,  says  Pauli,  for  large  separations  there 
should  be  no  mutual  action  at  all.  And  yet  (p.  1490(1 . 

when  one  treats  the  same  question  by  the  multi-dimensional  method,  the  result 
is  quite  different,  and  in  accordance  with  experiment. 

What  Pauli  is  referring  to  here  is  the  problem  of  accounting  for  van  der 
Waals  forces  between  atoms  and  molecules.  Classically,  molecules  with 
dipole  moments  tend  to  align,  resulting  in  a  mean  interaction  energy 
oc  1/R6  (where  R  is  the  distance  between  two  molecules).  However,  many 
molecules  exhibiting  van  der  Waals  forces  have  zero  dipole  moment;  and 
while  the  classical  orientation  effect  becomes  negligible  at  high  tempe- 
ratures, van  der  Waals  forces  do  not.  The  problem  of  explaining  van 
der  Waals  forces  was  finally  solved  by  quantum  theory,  beginning  with 
the  work  of  Wang  in  19270  (Note  that  the  effect  here  is  quite  distinct 
from  that  of  exchange  forces  resulting  from  the  Pauli  exclusion  principle. 
The  latter  forces  are  important  only  when  the  relevant  electronic  wave 
functions  have  significant  overlap,  whereas  van  der  Waals  forces  occur 
between  neutral  atoms  even  when  they  are  so  far  apart  that  their  charge 
clouds  have  negligible  overlap.) 

A  standard  textbook  calculation  of  the  van  der  Waals  force,  between 
two  hydrogen  atoms  (1  and  2)  separated  by  a  displacement  R,  proceeds 

a  For  a  detailed  review,  see  Margenau  (1939). 


216  Time,  determinism,  and  spacetime  framework 

as  followsQ  The  unperturbed  energy  eigenstate  is  the  product  \&  =  r/'oV'o 
of  the  two  ground  states.  If  R  =  |R|  is  much  larger  than  the  Bohr  radius, 
the  classical  electrostatic  potential  between  the  atoms  is 

,  (3) 

where  ri,  r2  are  respectively  the  positions  of  electrons  1,  2  relative  to 
their  nuclei.  In  the  state  \&  =  V'oV'o  the  mean  values  of  ri,  r2  both  vanish, 
so  that  the  expectation  value  of  V  vanishes.  However,  the  presence  of 
V  perturbs  the  ground  state  of  the  system,  to  a  new  and  entangled 
state  satisfying  (H0  +  V)^'  =  (2E0  +  AE)^' ,  where  H0  is  the 
unperturbed  Hamiltonian,  Eq  is  the  ground-state  energy  of  hydrogen, 
and  AE  is  the  energy  perturbation  from  which  one  deduces  the  van 
der  Waals  force.  Standard  perturbation  methods  show  that  AE  has  a 
leading  term  proportional  to  1/R6,  accounting  for  the  (attractive)  van 
der  Waals  force. 

Pauli  regarded  this  result  —  which  had  been  obtained  by  Wang  from 
the  Schrodinger  equation  in  configuration  space  —  as  evidence  that  in 
quantum  theory  there  are  interactions  that  cannot  be  described  in  terms 
of  space  and  time.  The  result  may  be  roughly  understood  classically,  as 
Pauli  points  out,  by  imagining  that  in  each  atom  there  is  an  oscillating 
dipole  moment  that  can  induce  (and  so  interact  with)  a  dipole  moment 
in  the  other  atom.  But  such  understanding  is  only  heuristic.  In  a  proper 
treatment,  using  'multi-dimensional  wave  mechanics',  the  correct  result 
is  obtained  by  methods  that,  according  to  Pauli,  cannot  be  understood 
in  a  spacetime  frameworkQ 

Pauli's  point  seems  to  have  been  that,  because  the  perturbed  wave 
function  ^'  is  entangled,  multi-dimensional  configuration  space  plays  a 
crucial  role  in  bringing  about  the  correct  result,  which  therefore  cannot 
be  properly  understood  in  terms  of  3-space  alone.  If  this  argument  seems 
unwarranted,  it  ought  to  be  remembered  that,  before  Wang's  derivation 
in  1927,  there  had  been  a  long  history  of  failed  attempts  to  explain  van 
der  Waals  forces  classically  (Margenau  1939). 

Disagreements  over  both  the  usefulness  and  the  tenability  of  the  space- 
time  framework  are  also  apparent  elsewhere  in  the  general  discussion.  For 
example,  Kramers  (p.[497|  asks:  What  advantage  do  you  see  in  giving  a 

a  See,  for  example,  Schiff  (1955,  pp.  176-80). 

a  According  to  Ehrenfest,  Bohr  also  gave  an  argument  (in  a  conversation  with 
Einstein)  against  a  spacetime  description  when  treating  many-particle  problems. 
See  section [L5l 


8.3  Visualis ability  and  the  spacetime  framework  217 


precise  value  to  the  velocity  v  of  the  photons?'  To  this  de  Broglie  replies 
(in  a  spirit  similar  to  that  of  Lorentz  above) : 

This  allows  one  to  imagine  the  trajectory  followed  by  the  photons  and  to 
specify  the  meaning  of  these  entities;  one  can  thus  consider  the  photon  as  a 
material  point  having  a  position  and  a  velocity. 

Kramers  was  unconvinced: 

I  do  not  very  well  see,  for  my  part,  the  advantage  that  there  is,  for  the 
description  of  experiments,  in  making  a  picture  where  the  photons  travel  along 
well-defined  trajectories. 

In  this  exchange,  Kramers  had  suggested  that  de  Broglie's  theory  could 
not  explain  radiation  pressure  from  a  single  photon,  thereby  questioning 
the  tenability  (and  not  just  the  usefulness)  of  the  spacetime  framework 
for  the  description  of  elementary  interactions.  (Cf.  section [TTX41) 

Later  in  the  general  discussion,  another  argument  against  de  Broglie's 
theory  is  provided  by  Pauli.  As  we  shall  discuss  at  length  in  section flOT2l 
Pauli  claims  on  the  basis  of  an  example  that  pilot-wave  theory  cannot  ac- 
count for  the  discrete  energy  exchange  taking  place  in  inelastic  collisions. 
It  is  interesting  to  note  that,  according  to  Pauli,  the  root  of  the  difficulty 
lies  in  the  attempt  to  construct  a  deterministic  particle  dynamics  in  a 
spacetime  framework  (p.  15 lip : 

....  this  difficulty  ....  is  due  directly  to  the  condition  assumed  by  Mr  de  Broglie, 
that  in  the  individual  collision  process  the  behaviour  of  the  particles  should 
be  completely  determined  and  may  at  the  same  time  be  described  completely 
by  ordinary  kinematics  in  spacetime. 


9 

Guiding  fields  in  3-space 


In  this  chapter  we  address  proposals  (by  Einstein,  and  by  Bohr,  Kra- 
mers and  Slater)  according  to  which  quantum  events  are  influenced  by 
'guiding  fields'  in  3-space.  These  ideas  led  to  a  predicted  violation  of 
energy-momentum  conservation  for  single  events,  in  contradiction  with 
experiment.  The  contradiction  was  resolved  only  by  the  introduction  of 
guiding  fields  in  configuration  space.  All  this  took  place  before  the  fifth 
Solvay  conference,  but  nevertheless  forms  an  important  background  to 
some  of  the  discussions  that  took  place  there. 

9.1  Einstein's  early  attempts  to  formulate  a  dynamical  theory 

of  light  quanta 

Since  the  publication  of  his  light-quantum  hypothesis  in  1905,  Einstein 
had  been  engaged  in  a  solitary  struggle  to  construct  a  detailed  theory 
of  light  quanta,  and  to  understand  the  relationship  between  the  quanta 
on  the  one  hand  and  the  electromagnetic  field  on  the  other@  Einstein's 
efforts  in  this  direction  were  never  published.  We  know  of  them  indirect- 
ly: they  are  mentioned  in  letters,  and  they  are  alluded  to  in  Einstein's 
1909  lecture  in  Salzburg.  Einstein's  published  papers  on  light  quanta 
continued  for  the  most  part  in  the  same  vein  as  his  1905  paper:  using  the 
theory  of  fluctuations  to  make  deductions  about  the  nature  of  radiation, 
without  giving  details  of  a  substantial  theory.  Einstein  was  essentially 
alone  in  his  dualistic  view  of  light,  in  which  localised  energy  fragments 

a  In  1900  Planck  had,  of  course,  effectively  introduced  a  quantisation  in  the 
interaction  between  radiation  and  matter;  but  it  was  Einstein  in  1905  who  first 
proposed  that  radiation  itself  (even  in  free  space)  consisted,  at  least  in  part,  of 
spatially  localised  energy  quanta.  In  1918  Einstein  wrote  to  his  friend  Besso:  'I 
do  not  doubt  anymore  the  reality  of  radiation  quanta,  although  I  still  stand  quite 
alone  in  this  conviction'  (original  italics,  as  quoted  in  Pais  (1982,  p.  411)). 


218 


9.1  Einstein's  early  attempts 


219 


coexisted  with  extended  waves,  until  the  work  of  de  Broglie  in  1923 
—  which  extended  the  dualism  to  all  particles,  and  made  considerable 
progress  towards  a  real  theory  (see  chapter  [2j  • 

A  glimpse  of  Einstein's  attempts  to  formulate  a  dynamical  theory  of 
light  quanta  may  be  obtained  from  a  close  reading  of  his  1909  Salzburg 
lecture.  There,  as  we  saw  in  section  I7.2(  Einstein  marshalled  evidence 
that  light  waves  contain  localised  energy  fragments.  He  suggested  that 
the  electromagnetic  field  is  associated  with  singular  points  at  which  the 
energy  is  localised,  and  he  offered  the  following  remarkable  (if  heuristic) 
picture: 

I  more  or  less  imagine  each  such  singular  point  as  being  surrounded  by  a  field  of 
force  which  has  essentially  the  character  of  a  plane  wave  and  whose  amplitude 
decreases  with  the  distance  from  the  singular  point.  If  many  such  singularities 
are  present  at  separations  that  are  small  compared  with  the  dimensions  of  the 
field  of  force  of  a  singular  point,  then  such  fields  of  force  will  superpose,  and 
their  totality  will  yield  an  undulatory  field  of  force  that  may  differ  only  slightly 
from  an  undulatory  field  as  defined  by  the  current  electromagnetic  theory  of 
light.  (Einstein  1909,  English  translation,  p.  394) 

Here,  each  light  quantum  is  supposed  to  have  an  extended  field  associa- 
ted with  it,  and  large  numbers  of  quanta  with  their  associated  fields  are 
supposed  to  yield  (to  a  good  approximation)  the  electromagnetic  field  of 
Maxwell's  theory.  In  other  words,  the  electromagnetic  field  as  we  know 
it  emerges  from  the  collective  behaviour  of  large  numbers  of  underlying 
fields  associated  with  individual  quanta. 

A  similar  view  is  expressed  in  a  letter  from  Einstein  to  Lorentz  written 
a  few  months  earlier,  in  May  1909: 

I  conceive  of  the  light  quantum  as  a  point  that  is  surrounded  by  a  greatly 
extended  vector  field,  that  somehow  diminishes  with  distance.  Whether  or  not 
when  several  light  quanta  are  present  with  mutually  overlapping  fields  one 
must  imagine  a  simple  superposition  of  the  vector  fields,  that  I  cannot  say.  In 
any  case,  for  the  determination  of  events,  one  must  have  equations  of  motion 
for  the  singular  points  in  addition  to  the  differential  equations  for  the  vector 
field.  (Quoted  in  Howard  1990,  p.  75) 

From  the  last  sentence,  it  is  clear  that  Einstein's  conception  was  suppo- 
sed to  be  deterministic. 

Einstein's  view  in  1909,  then,  is  remarkably  reminiscent  of  de  Broglie's 
pilot-wave  theory  as  well  as  of  his  theory  of  the  'double  solution'  (from 
which  de  Broglie  hoped  pilot- wave  theory  would  emerge,  see  chapter [2]). 
Einstein  seems  to  have  thought  of  each  individual  light  quantum  as  being 


220 


Guiding  fields  in  3-space 


accompanied  by  some  kind  of  field  in  3-space  that  affects  the  motion  of 
the  quantum. 

Fascinating  reactions  to  Einstein's  ideas  appear  in  the  recorded  dis- 
cussion that  took  place  after  Einstein's  lecture.  Stark  pointed  out  a 
phenomenon  that  seemed  to  speak  in  favour  of  localised  energy  quanta  in 
free  space:  'even  at  great  distances,  up  to  10  m,  electromagnetic  radiation 
that  has  left  an  X-ray  tube  for  the  surrounding  space  can  still  achieve 
concentrated  action  on  a  single  electron'  (Einstein  1909,  English  trans- 
lation, p.  397).  Stark's  point  here  is,  again,  Einstein's  locality  argument: 
as  we  noted  at  the  end  of  section  I7.2[  in  retrospect  it  seems  puzzling 
that  this  simple  and  compelling  argument  was  not  widely  understood 
much  earlier,  but  here  Stark  clearly  appreciates  it.  However  —  and  this 
is  probably  why  the  argument  did  not  gain  currency  —  doubts  were 
raised  as  to  how  such  a  theory  could  explain  interference.  Planck  spoke 
as  follows: 

Stark  brought  up  something  in  favor  of  the  quantum  theory,  and  I  wish 
to  bring  up  something  against  it;  I  have  in  mind  the  interferences  at  the 
enormous  phase  differences  of  hundreds  of  thousands  of  wavelengths.  When  a 
quantum  interferes  with  itself,  it  would  have  to  have  an  extension  of  hundreds 
of  thousands  of  wavelengths.  This  is  also  a  certain  difficulty.  (Einstein  1909, 
English  translation,  p.  397) 

To  this  objection,  Einstein  gives  a  most  interesting  reply: 

I  picture  a  quantum  as  a  singularity  surrounded  by  a  large  vector  field.  By 
using  a  large  number  of  quanta  one  can  construct  a  vector  field  that  does 
not  differ  much  from  the  kind  of  vector  field  we  assume  to  be  involved  in 
radiations.  I  can  well  imagine  that  when  rays  impinge  upon  a  boundary 
surface,  a  separation  of  the  quanta  takes  place,  due  to  interaction  at  the 
boundary  surface,  possibly  according  to  the  phase  of  the  resulting  field  at 

which  the  quanta  reach  the  interface  I  do  not  see  any  fundamental  difficulty 

in  the  interference  phenomena.  (Einstein  1909,  English  translation,  p.  398) 

Again,  the  similarity  to  de  Broglie's  later  ideas  is  striking.  Einstein  seems 
to  think  that  the  associated  waves  can  affect  the  motions  of  the  quanta, 
in  such  a  way  as  to  account  for  interference. 

It  should  be  noted,  though,  that  in  this  exchange  it  is  somewhat 
unclear  whether  the  subject  is  interference  for  single  photons  or  for 
many  photons.  Einstein  talks  about  interference  in  terms  of  the  col- 
lective behaviour  of  many  quanta,  rather  than  in  terms  of  one  quantum 
at  a  time.  While  single-photon  interference  with  very  feeble  light  was 
observed  by  Taylor  (1909)  in  the  same  year,  Stark  at  least  seems  not 
to  know  of  Taylor's  results,  for  at  this  point  (just  before  Einstein's 


9.2  The  failure  of  energy-momentum  conservation  221 

reply)  he  interjects  that  'the  experiments  to  which  Mr  Planck  alluded 

involve  very  dense  radiation           With  radiation  of  very  low  density, 

the  interference  phenomena  would  most  likely  be  different'  (Einstein 
1909,  English  translation,  p.  397).  On  the  other  hand,  Planck  may  well 
have  thought  of  the  light-quantum  hypothesis  as  implying  that  light 
quanta  would  move  independently,  like  the  molecules  of  an  ideal  gas  (in 
which  case  even  for  intense  radiation  one  could  consider  the  motion  of 
each  quantum  independently).  Einstein  countered  precisely  such  a  view 
at  the  beginning  of  his  reply  to  Planck,  where  he  states  that  'it  must 
not  be  assumed  that  radiations  consist  of  non-interacting  quanta;  this 
would  make  it  impossible  to  explain  the  phenomena  of  interference'.  This 
might  be  read  as  implying  that  interactions  among  different  quanta  are 
essential,  and  that  interference  would  not  occur  with  one  photon  at  a 
time.  However,  Einstein  may  simply  have  meant  that  the  light  quanta 
cannot  be  thought  of  as  free  particles:  they  must  be  accompanied  by  a 
wave  as  well,  in  order  to  explain  interference.  (This  last  reading  fits  with 
Einstein's  discussion,  in  the  lecture,  of  thermal  fluctuations  in  radiation: 
these  cannot  be  obtained  from  a  gas  of  free  and  independent  particles 
alone;  a  wave-like  component  is  also  needed.) 

While  there  is  some  uncertainty  over  the  details  of  Einstein's  pro- 
posal, in  retrospect,  given  our  present  understanding  of  how  de  Bro- 
glie's  pilot- wave  theory  provides  a  straightforward  explanation  of  particle 
interference  (see  section  16,1-ip.  Einstein's  reply  to  Planck  seems  very 
reasonable.  However,  it  appears  that  yet  another  of  Einstein's  arguments 
was  not  appreciated  by  his  contemporaries.  Seven  years  later,  after  ha- 
ving verified  Einstein's  photoelectric  equation  experimentally,  Millikan 
nevertheless  completely  rejected  Einstein's  light-quantum  hypothesis, 
which  he  called  'reckless  ....  because  it  flies  in  the  face  of  the  thoroughly 
established  facts  of  interference'  (Millikan  1916,  p.  355). 

9.2  The  failure  of  energy-momentum  conservation 

It  appears  that  Einstein  was  still  thinking  along  similar  lines  in  the 
1920s,  though  again  without  publishing  any  detailed  theory.  As  we  saw 
at  the  end  of  section  16.2.11  in  his  collision  papers  of  1926  Born  notes 
the  analogy  between  his  own  work  and  Einstein's  ideas:  'I  start  from  a 
remark  by  Einstein  ....  ;  he  said  ....  that  the  waves  are  there  only  to  show 
the  corpuscular  light  quanta  the  way,  and  in  this  sense  he  talked  of  a 
"ghost  field'"  (Born  1926b,  pp.  803-4).  Born  gives  no  reference  to  any 
published  paper  of  Einstein's,  however. 


222 


Guiding  fields  in  3-space 


How  Einstein's  thinking  at  this  time  compared  with  that  in  1909  is 
hard  to  say.  Certainly,  in  1909  he  thought  of  the  electromagnetic  field  as 
being  built  up  from  the  collective  behaviour  of  large  numbers  of  vector 
fields  associated  with  individual  quanta.  In  such  a  scenario,  it  seems 
plausible  that  in  the  right  circumstances  the  intensity  of  the  emergent 
electromagnetic  field  could  act  as,  in  effect,  a  probability  field.  (Unlike 
Born,  Einstein  would  have  regarded  a  purely  probabilistic  description  as 
a  makeshift  only.) 

Just  one  year  before  Born's  collision  papers,  in  1925,  Einstein  gave 
a  colloquium  in  Berlin  where  he  indeed  discussed  the  idea  that  every 
particle  (including  electrons,  following  de  Broglie)  was  accompanied  by 
a  'Fiihrungsfeld'  or  guiding  field  (Pais  1982,  p.  441;  Howard  1990,  p.  72). 
According  to  Wigner,  who  was  present  at  the  colloquium: 

Yet  Einstein,  though  in  a  way  he  was  fond  of  it,  never  published  it.  He  realized 
that  it  is  in  conflict  with  the  conservation  principles:  at  a  collision  of  a  light 
quantum  and  an  electron  for  instance,  both  would  follow  a  guiding  field. 
But  these  guiding  fields  give  only  the  probabilities  of  the  directions  in  which 
the  two  components,  the  light  quantum  and  the  electron,  will  proceed.  Since 
they  follow  their  directions  independently,  ....  the  momentum  and  the  energy 

conservation  laws  would  be  obeyed  only  statistically           This  Einstein  could 

not  accept  and  hence  never  took  his  idea  of  the  guiding  field  quite  seriously. 
(Wigner  1980,  p.  463) 

In  the  early  1920s,  then,  Einstein  was  still  thinking  along  lines  that 
are  reminiscent  of  de  Broglie's  work,  but  he  never  published  these  ideas 
because  they  conflicted  with  the  conservation  laws  for  individual  events. 
The  difficulty  Einstein  faced  was  overcome  only  by  the  introduction 
(through  the  work  of  de  Broglie,  Schrodinger,  and  also  Born)  of  a  guiding 
field  in  configuration  space  —  a  single  (and  generally  entangled)  field 
that  determined  probabilities  for  all  particles  collectively.  In  Einstein's 
approach,  where  each  particle  had  its  own  guiding  field,  the  possibility 
of  entanglement  was  precluded,  and  the  correlations  were  not  strong 
enough  to  guarantee  energy-momentum  conservation  for  single  events. 

As  a  simplified  model  of  what  Einstein  seems  to  have  had  in  mind, 
consider  two  particles  1  and  2  moving  towards  each  other  in  one  dimen- 
sion, with  equal  and  opposite  momenta  p  and  —  p  respectively.  Schema- 
tically, let  us  represent  this  with  an  initial  wave  function  vp(xi,X2,0)  = 
ip^ (x\,0)ip2  (x2, 0),  where  tpf  and  tj)^  are  broad  packets  (approximating 
plane  waves)  moving  along  +x  and  —  x  respectively.  Let  the  packets  meet 
in  a  region  centred  around  the  origin,  where  we  imagine  that  an  elastic 
collision  takes  place  with  probability  \.  At  large  times,  we  assume  that 


9.2  The  failure  of  energy-momentum  conservation 


223 


ip(xi,X2,t)  takes  the  schematic  and  entangled  form 

ip(xt,x2,t)  =  — |  (t/4 {x1,t)tp2~(x2,t)  +  ijj^(x1,t)ijj^(x2,t))  ,  (1) 

with  the  first  branch  corresponding  to  the  particles  having  moved  freely 
past  each  other  and  the  second  corresponding  to  an  elastic  collision  re- 
versing their  motions.  The  initial  state  has  zero  total  momentum.  In  the 
final  state,  both  possible  outcomes  correspond  to  zero  total  momentum. 
Thus,  in  quantum  theory,  whatever  the  outcome  of  an  individual  run  of 
the  experiment,  momentum  is  always  conserved.  Now  imagine  if,  instead 
of  using  a  single  wave  function  ip(xi,X2,t)  in  configuration  space,  we 
made  use  of  two  3-space  waves  ipx(x,t),  ip2(x,t)  (one  for  each  particle). 
It  would  then  seem  natural  that,  during  the  collision,  the  initial  3-space 
wave  ipi(x,0)  —  ipf(x,0)  for  particle  1  would  evolve  into 


while  the  initial  3-space  wave  ip2(x,0)  =  ip2  {xify  f°r  particle  2  would 
evolve  into 


If  the  amplitude  of  each  3-space  wave  determined  the  probabilities  for 
the  respective  particles,  there  would  then  be  four  (equiprobable)  possible 
outcomes  for  the  scattering  experiment,  the  two  stated  above,  together 
with  one  in  which  both  particles  move  to  the  right  and  one  in  which  both 
particles  move  to  the  left.  These  possibilities  would  correspond,  in  effect, 
to  a  final  (configuration-space)  wave  function  of  the  separable  form 


(<Ai+  +  VT)      +  1>t)  =  1>tfa  +  i>xi>i  +  ^1^2  +  4>i  i>t  •  (4) 


The  final  total  momenta  for  the  four  (equiprobable)  possible  outcomes 
are  0,  +2p,  —2p,  0.  The  total  momentum  would  not  be  generally  conser- 
ved for  individual  outcomes,  but  conservation  would  hold  on  average. 
Note  the  fundamental  difference  between  |T])  and  Q:  the  former  is 
entangled,  the  latter  is  not. 

Einstein  considered  such  a  failure  of  the  conservation  laws  reason 
enough  to  reject  the  idea.  A  theory  bearing  some  resemblance  to  this 
scheme  was,  however,  proposed  and  published  by  Bohr,  Kramers  and 
Slater  (1924a,b). 

In  the  Bohr-Kramers-Slater  (BKS)  theory,  there  are  no  photons.  As- 
sociated with  an  atom  in  a  stationary  state  is  a  'virtual  radiation  field' 
containing  all  those  frequencies  corresponding  to  transitions  to  and  from 


r/>i(x,  t)  =  ^  (x,  i)  +  V>!  (x,  t)  , 


(2) 


ip2(x,  t)  =  %jj2  (x,  t)  +  ipj{x,  t)  . 


(3) 


224 


Guiding  fields  in  3-space 


other  stationary  states.  The  virtual  field  determines  the  transition  pro- 
babilities for  the  atom  itself,  and  also  contributes  to  the  transition 
probabilities  for  other,  distant  atoms.  However,  the  resulting  correlations 
between  widely-separated  atoms  are  not  strong  enough  to  yield  energy- 
momentum  conservation  for  individual  events  (cf.  Compton's  account  of 


To  illustrate  this,  consider  again  (in  modern  language)  an  atom  A 
emitting  a  photon  of  energy  E{  —  Ef  that  is  subsequently  absorbed  by 
a  distant  atom  B.  In  the  BKS  theory,  the  transition  at  B  is  not  directly 
caused  by  the  transition  at  A  (as  it  would  be  in  a  simple  'semiclassical' 
picture  of  the  emission,  propagation,  and  subsequent  absorption  of  a 
localised  light  quantum).  Rather,  the  virtual  radiation  field  of  A  contains 
terms  corresponding  to  transitions  of  A,  and  this  field  contributes  to  the 
transition  probabilities  at  B.  Yet,  if  B  actually  undergoes  a  transition 
corresponding  to  an  energy  increase  Ei  —  Ef,  atom  A  is  not  constrained 
to  make  a  transition  corresponding  to  an  energy  decrease  Ei  —  Ef. 
The  connection  between  the  atoms  is  merely  statistical,  and  energy 
conservation  holds  only  on  average,  not  for  individual  processes@ 

Einstein  objected  to  the  BKS  theory  —  in  a  colloquium,  and  in  private 
letters  and  conversations  (Mehra  and  Rechenberg  1982a,  pp.  553-4;  Pais 
1982,  p.  420;  Howard  1990,  pp.  71-4)  —  partly  for  the  same  reason  he 
had  not  published  his  proposals:  that,  as  he  believed,  energy-momentum 
conservation  would  hold  even  in  the  case  of  elementary  interactions 
between  widely-separated  systems]^  Einstein's  expectation  was  subse- 
quently confirmed  by  the  Bothe-Geiger  and  Compton-Simon  experi- 
ments (Bothe  and  Geiger  1925b,  Compton  and  Simon  1925). 

In  the  Bothe-Geiger  experiment,  by  means  of  counter  coincidences, 
Compton  scattering  (that  is,  relativistic  electron-photon  scattering)  was 
studied  for  individual  events,  to  see  if  the  outgoing  scattered  photon 
and  the  outgoing  recoil  electron  were  produced  simultaneously.  Strict 
temporal  coincidences  were  expected  on  the  basis  of  the  light-quantum 
hypothesis,  but  not  on  the  basis  of  the  BKS  theory.  Such  coincidences 

a  For  a  detailed  account  of  the  BKS  theory,  see  Darrigol  (1992,  chap.  9). 

a  Note  that  Slater's  original  theory  did  contain  photons,  whose  motions  were  guided 
(statistically)  by  the  electromagnetic  field.  The  photons  were  removed  at  the 
instigation  of  Bohr  and  Kramers  (Mehra  and  Rechenberg  1982a,  pp.  543-7). 

b  In  a  letter  to  Ehrenfest  dated  31  May  1924,  Einstein  wrote:  'This  idea  [the  BKS 
theory]  is  an  old  acquaintance  of  mine,  but  one  whom  I  do  not  regard  as  a 
respectable  fellow'  (Howard  1990,  p.  72).  Einstein  listed  five  criticisms,  including 
the  violation  of  the  conservation  laws,  and  a  difficulty  with  thermodynamics 
(Mehra  and  Rechenberg  1982a,  p.  553). 


9.2  The  failure  of  energy-momentum  conservation  225 

were  in  fact  observed  by  Bothe  and  Geiger@  In  the  Compton-Simon 
experiment,  Compton  scattering  was  again  studied,  with  the  aim  of 
verifying  the  conservation  laws  for  individual  events.  Such  conservation 
was  in  fact  observed  by  Compton  and  Simon0  As  a  result  of  these 
experiments,  it  was  widely  concluded  that  the  BKS  theory  was  wrong@ 
It  appears  that,  even  at  the  time  of  the  fifth  Solvay  conference,  Ein- 
stein was  still  thinking  to  some  extent  in  terms  of  guiding  fields  in 
3-space.  Evidence  for  this  comes  from  an  otherwise  incomprehensible 
remark  Einstein  made  during  his  long  contribution  to  the  general  discus- 
sion. There,  Einstein  compared  two  interpretations  of  the  wave  function 
ip  for  a  single  electron.  On  Einstein's  view  I,  ip  represents  an  ensemble  — 
or  'cloud'  —  of  electrons,  while  on  his  view  II  ip  is  a  complete  description 
of  an  individual  electron.  As  we  have  discussed  at  length  in  section  I7IT| 
Einstein  argued  that  interpretation  II  is  inconsistent  with  locality.  Now, 
Einstein  also  made  the  following  remark  concerning  the  conservation  of 
energy  and  momentum  according  to  interpretations  I  and  II  (p.[487j): 

The  second  conception  goes  further  than  the  first  It  is  only  by  virtue  of  II 

that  the  theory  contains  the  consequence  that  the  conservation  laws  are  valid 
for  the  elementary  process;  it  is  only  from  II  that  the  theory  can  derive  the 
result  of  the  experiment  of  Geiger  and  Bothe   

As  currently  understood,  of  course,  a  purely  'statistical'  interpretation 
of  the  wave  function  (cf.  sectionl5~.2.4p  would  yield  correct  predictions,  in 
agreement  with  the  conservation  laws  for  elementary  processes  (such  as 
scattering).  Why,  then,  did  Einstein  assert  that  interpretation  I  would 
conflict  with  such  elementary  conservation?  It  must  surely  be  that,  for 
whatever  reason,  he  was  thinking  of  interpretation  I  as  tied  specifically 
to  wave  functions  in  3-space,  resulting  in  a  failure  of  the  conservation 
laws  for  single  events  as  discussed  above.  In  contrast,  specifically  re- 
garding interpretation  II,  Einstein  explicitly  asserted  (p.  1487ft  that  it 
is  'essentially  tied  to  a  multi-dimensional  representation  (configuration 
space)'. 

The  conflict  between  Einstein's  ideas  about  guiding  fields  in  3-space 
and  energy-momentum  conservation  was,  as  we  have  mentioned,  resolved 
only  by  the  introduction  of  a  guiding  field  in  configuration  space  — 
with  the  associated  entanglement  and  nonseparability  that  Einstein  was 

a  See  Compton's  account  of  'Bothe  and  Geiger's  coincidence  experiments',  pp.l350lf.. 

and  also  Mehra  and  Rechenberg  (1982a,  pp.  609-12). 
b  See  Compton's  account  of  'Directional  emission  of  scattered  X-rays',  pp.  13501  f.. 

and  also  Mehra  and  Rechenberg  (1982a,  p.  612). 
c  Cf.  Bohr's  remarks  in  the  discussion  of  Compton's  report,  p.  13591 


226 


Guiding  fields  in  3-space 


to  find  so  objectionable.  Einstein's  early  worries  about  nonseparability 
(long  before  the  EPR  paper)  have  been  extensively  documented  by  Ho- 
ward (1990).  Defining  'separability'  as  the  idea  that  'spatio-temporally 
separated  systems  possess  well-defined  real  states,  such  that  the  joint 
state  of  the  composite  system  is  wholly  determined  by  these  two  separate 
states'  (Howard  1990,  p.  64),  Howard  highlights  the  fundamental  diffi- 
culty Einstein  faced  in  having  to  choose,  in  effect,  between  separability 
and  energy-momentum  conservation: 

But  as  long  as  the  'guiding'  or  'virtual  fields'  [determining  the  probabilities  for 
particle  motions,  or  for  atomic  transitions]  are  assigned  separately,  one  to  each 
particle  or  atom,  one  cannot  arrange  both  for  the  merely  probabilistic  behavior 
of  individual  systems  and  for  correlations  between  interacting  systems  suffi- 
cient to  secure  strict  energy-momentum  conservation  in  all  individual  events. 
As  it  turned  out,  it  was  only  Schrodinger's  relocation  of  the  wave  fields  from 
physical  space  to  configuration  space  that  made  possible  the  assignment  of 
joint  wave  fields  that  could  give  the  strong  correlations  needed  to  secure  strict 
conservation.  (Howard  1990,  p.  73) 

Here,  then,  is  a  remarkable  historical  and  physical  connection  bet- 
ween nonseparability  or  entanglement  on  the  one  hand,  and  energy- 
momentum  conservation  on  the  other.  The  introduction  of  probability 
waves  in  configuration  space,  with  generic  entangled  states,  finally  made 
it  possible  to  secure  energy-momentum  conservation  for  individual  emis- 
sion and  scattering  events,  at  the  price  of  introducing  a  fundamental 
nonseparability  into  physics. 


10 


Scattering  and  measurement  in  de  Broglie's 
pilot-wave  theory 


At  the  fifth  Solvay  conference,  some  questions  that  are  closely  related 
to  the  quantum  measurement  problem  (as  we  would  now  call  it)  were 
addressed  in  the  context  of  pilot-wave  theory,  in  both  the  discussion 
following  de  Broglie's  report  and  in  the  general  discussion.  Most  of  these 
questions  concerned  the  treatment  of  scattering  (elastic  and  inelastic); 
they  were  raised  by  Born  and  Pauli,  and  replies  were  given  by  Bril- 
louin  and  de  Broglie.  Of  special  interest  is  the  famous  —  and  widely 
misunderstood  —  objection  by  Pauli  concerning  inelastic  scattering. 
Another  question  closely  related  to  the  measurement  problem  was  raised 
by  Kramers,  concerning  the  recoil  of  a  single  photon  on  a  mirror. 

In  this  chapter,  we  shall  first  outline  the  pilot-wave  theory  of  scatte- 
ring, as  currently  understood,  and  examine  the  extensive  discussions  of 
scattering  —  in  the  context  of  de  Broglie's  theory  —  that  took  place  at 
the  conference. 

We  shall  see  that  de  Broglie  and  Brillouin  correctly  answered  the  query 
raised  by  Born  concerning  elastic  scattering.  Further,  we  shall  see  that 
Pauli's  objection  concerning  the  inelastic  case  was  both  more  subtle  and 
more  confused  than  is  generally  thought;  in  particular,  Pauli  presented 
his  example  in  terms  of  a  misleading  optical  analogy  (that  was  originally 
given  by  Fermi  in  a  more  restricted  context).  Contrary  to  a  widespread 
view,  de  Broglie's  reply  to  Pauli  did  contain  the  essential  points  required 
for  a  proper  treatment  of  inelastic  scattering;  at  the  same  time,  Fermi's 
misleading  analogy  confused  matters,  and  neither  de  Broglie  in  1927  nor 
Bohm  in  1952  saw  what  the  true  fault  with  Pauli's  example  was.  (As  we 
shall  also  see,  a  proper  pilot-wave  treatment  of  Pauli's  example  was  not 
given  until  1956,  by  de  Broglie.) 

We  shall  also  outline  the  pilot-wave  theory  of  quantum  measurement, 
again  as  currently  understood,  and  we  shall  use  this  as  a  context  in 


227 


228 


Scattering  and  measurement  in  de  Broglie's  theory 


which  to  examine  the  question  raised  by  Kramers,  of  the  recoil  of  a 
single  photon  on  a  mirror,  which  de  Broglie  was  unable  to  answer. 


10.1  Scattering  in  pilot- wave  theory 

Let  us  first  consider  elastic  scattering  by  a  fixed  potential  associated 
with  some  scattering  centre  or  region.  An  incident  particle  may  (for  a 
pure  quantum  state)  be  represented  by  a  freely-evolving  wave  packet 
^>inc(x)£)  that  is  spatially  finite  (that  is,  limited  both  longitudinally  and 
laterally),  and  that  has  mean  momentum  fik.  During  the  scattering,  the 
wave  function  evolves  into  ip  =  ip-lnc  +  ipsc,  where  ipsc  is  the  scattered 
wave.  At  large  distances  from  the  scattering  region,  and  off  the  axis 
(through  the  scattering  centre)  parallel  to  the  incident  wave  vector  k, 
only  the  scattered  wave  vpsc  contributes  to  the  particle  current  density  j 
—  where  j  is  often  used  in  textbook  derivations  of  the  scattering  cross 
section. 

As  is  well  known,  the  mathematics  of  a  fully  time-dependent  calcula- 
tion of  the  scattering  of  a  finite  packet  may  be  simplified  by  resorting  to 
a  time-independent  treatment  in  which  ip-mc  is  taken  to  be  an  infinitely- 
extended  plane  wave  elk  x.  At  large  distances  from  the  scattering  region 
the  wave  function  V  =  e*kx  +  ?Asc  (a  time-independent  eigenfunction  of 
the  total  Hamiltonian)  has  the  asymptotic  form 

+  (1) 

(taking  the  z-axis  parallel  to  k,  using  spherical  polar  coordinates  centred 
on  the  scattering  region,  and  ignoring  overall  normalisation).  The  scatte- 
ring amplitude  /  gives  the  differential  cross  section  do/dSl  =  \  f(0,  <p)\2 . 

In  the  standard  textbook  derivation  of  da/dQ,  the  current  density  j 
is  used  to  calculate  the  rate  of  probability  flow  into  an  element  of  solid 
angle  dfl,  where  j  is  taken  to  be  the  current  associated  with  ipsc  only,  even 
though  ipsc  overlaps  with  V'inc  =  elkx.  This  is  justified  because  the  plane 
wave  ejkx  is,  of  course,  merely  an  abstraction  used  for  mathematical 
convenience:  a  real  incident  wave  will  be  spatially  limited,  and  will  not 
overlap  with  the  scattered  wave  at  the  location  of  the  particle  detector 
(which  is  assumed  to  be  located  off  the  axis  of  incidence,  so  as  not  to  be 
bathed  in  the  incident  beam). 

The  above  standard  discussion  of  scattering  may  readily  be  recast  in 


10.1  Scattering  in  pilot-wave  theory 


229 


pilot-wave  terms,  where 

v  =   7?  =  —  Im  — —  =    (2) 

\MZ      m        ip  m 

(with  ip  =  \ip\  e^/fi^s)  is  interpreted  as  the  actual  velocity  field  of  an 
ensemble  of  particles  with  positions  distributed  according  to  IV^2-  The 
differential  cross  section  da/dQ.  measures  the  fraction  of  incident  par- 
ticles whose  actual  trajectories  end  (asymptotically)  in  the  element  of 
solid  angle  d£l. 

That  a  real  incident  packet  is  always  spatially  finite  is,  of  course,  an 
elementary  point  known  to  every  student  of  wave  optics.  This  (often 
implicit)  assumption  is  essential  to  introductory  textbook  treatments  of 
the  scattering  of  light,  whether  by  a  Hertzian  dipole  or  by  a  diffraction 
grating.  If  the  incident  wave  were  a  literally  infinite  plane  wave,  then 
the  scattered  wave  would  of  course  overlap  with  the  incident  wave  ever- 
ywhere, and  no  matter  where  a  detector  was  placed  it  would  be  affected 
by  the  incident  wave  as  well  as  by  the  scattered  wave. 

Certainly,  the  participants  at  the  fifth  Solvay  conference  —  many  of 
whom  had  extensive  laboratory  experience  —  were  aware  of  this  simple 
point.  We  emphasise  this  because,  as  we  shall  see,  the  finiteness  of 
incident  wave  packets  played  a  central  role  in  the  discussions  that  took 
place  regarding  scattering  in  de  Broglie's  theory. 

Let  us  now  consider  inelastic  scattering:  specifically,  the  scattering  of 
an  electron  by  a  hydrogen  atom  initially  in  the  ground  state.  The  atom 
can  become  excited  by  the  collision,  in  which  case  the  outgoing  electron 
will  have  lost  a  corresponding  amount  of  energy.  Let  the  scattering 
electron  have  position  xs  and  the  atomic  electron  have  position  xa .  In  a 
time-dependent  description,  the  total  wave  function  evolves  into 

*(xs,xa,i)  = 

<f>Q(Xa)e-iEot/%nc(Xs,  t)  +  £  M^'^^M^t)  ■  (3) 

n 

Here,  the  first  term  is  an  initial  product  state,  where  <po  is  the  ground- 
state  wave  function  of  hydrogen  with  ground-state  energy  Eq  and  Vine 
is  a  (finite)  incident  packet.  The  scattering  terms  have  components  as 
shown,  where  the  <j>n  are  the  nth  excited  states  of  hydrogen  and  the 
ipn  are  outgoing  wave  packets.  It  may  be  shown  by  standard  techniques 
that,  asymptotically,  the  nth  outgoing  packet  ipn  is  centred  on  a  radius 
rn  =  (hkn/m)t  from  the  scattering  region,  where  kn  is  the  outgoing  wave 
number  fixed  by  energy  conservation. 


230  Scattering  and  measurement  in  de  Broglie's  theory 

Because  the  outgoing  (asymptotic)  packets  tpn  expand  with  different 
speeds,  they  eventually  become  widely  separated  in  space.  The  actual 
scattered  electron  with  position  xs(i)  can  occupy  only  one  of  these  non- 
overlapping  packets,  say  ipi,  and  its  velocity  will  then  be  determined  by 
ifti  alone.  Further,  the  motion  of  the  atomic  electron  will  be  determined 
by  the  corresponding  fa  alone,  and  after  the  scattering  the  atom  will  be 
(in  effect)  in  an  energy  eigenstate  fa. 

We  are  using  two  well-known  properties  of  pilot- wave  dynamics:  (a)  If 
a  wave  function  'i'  =  |^|  e^n's  is  a  superposition  of  terms  +  ^2+ 
having  no  overlap  in  configuration  space,  then  the  phase  gradient  VS 
at  the  occupied  point  of  configuration  space  (which  gives  the  velocity  of 
the  actual  configuration)  reduces  to  VSi,  where  —  \^i  \  e^%ln^Si  is  the 
occupied  packet,  (b)  If  the  occupied  packet  is  a  product  over  certain 
configuration  components,  then  the  velocities  of  those  components  are 
determined  by  the  associated  factors  in  the  product. 

Applying  (a)  and  (b)  to  the  case  discussed  here,  once  the  ipn  have 
separated  the  total  wave  function  <3>  becomes  a  sum  of  non-overlapping 
packets,  where  only  one  packet  —  fa(xa)e~%Eit^,iipi(xs,t)  can  contain 
the  actual  configuration  (xa,  xs).  The  velocity  of  the  scattered  electron  is 
then  given  by  xs  =  (h/rri)  Im(VV,i/'0i)i  while  the  velocity  of  the  atomic 
electron  is  given  by  xa  =  (H/m)  lm(Vfa/fa).  Thus,  there  takes  place  an 
effective  'collapse  of  the  wave  packet'  to  the  state  faipi. 

It  is  straightforward  to  show  that,  if  the  initial  ensemble  of  xs,  xa  has 
distribution  |^|2,  the  probability  for  ending  in  the  ith  packet  —  that  is, 
the  probability  for  the  atom  to  end  in  the  state  fa  —  will  be  given  by 
J  d3xs  |^i(xs,  t)|2,  in  accordance  with  the  usual  quantum  result. 

Further,  the  effective  'collapse'  to  the  state  faipi  is  for  all  practical 
purposes  irreversible.  As  argued  by  Bohm  (1952a,  p.  178),  the  scattered 
particle  will  subsequently  interact  with  many  other  degrees  of  freedom 
—  making  it  very  unlikely  that  distinct  states  faipi,  faiftj  (i  j)  will 
interfere  at  later  times,  as  this  would  require  the  associated  branches 
of  the  total  wave  function  to  overlap  with  respect  to  every  degree  of 
freedom  involved. 

Again,  for  mathematical  convenience,  one  often  considers  the  limit  in 
which  the  incident  wave  Vine  is  unlimited  (a  plane  wave).  This  makes 
the  calculation  of  4"  easier.  In  this  limit,  the  outgoing  wave  packets  tpn 
become  unlimited  too,  and  overlap  with  each  other  everywhere:  all  the 
terms  in  then  overlap  in  every  region  of  space.  If  one  naively  assumed 
that  this  limit  corresponded  to  a  real  situation,  the  outgoing  electron 
would  never  reach  a  constant  velocity  because  it  would  be  guided  by  a 


10.1  Scattering  in  pilot-wave  theory 


231 


superposition  of  overlapping  terms,  rather  than  by  a  single  term  in  Q. 
Similarly,  after  the  scattering,  the  atomic  electron  would  not  be  guided 
by  a  single  eigenfunction  4>i ,  and  the  atom  would  not  finish  in  a  definite 
energy  state.  In  any  real  situation,  of  course,  tp-mc  will  be  limited  in  space 
and  time,  and  at  large  times  the  outgoing  packets  ipn  will  separate:  the 
trajectory  of  the  scattered  electron  will  be  guided  by  only  one  of  the 
ipn  and  (in  regions  outside  the  path  of  the  incident  beam)  will  not  be 
affected  by  Vine-  (Note  that  longitudinal  finiteness  of  the  incident  wave 
V'inc  leads  to  a  separation  of  the  outgoing  waves  ijjn  from  each  other, 
while  lateral  finiteness  of  Vine  ensures  that  Vine  does  not  overlap  with 
the  ipn  in  regions  off  the  axis  of  incidence.) 

As  we  shall  see,  apart  from  the  practical  irreversibility  of  the  effective 
collapse  process,  the  above  'pilot-wave  theory  of  scattering'  seems  to 
have  been  more  or  less  understood  by  de  Broglie  (and  perhaps  also  by 
Brillouin)  in  October  1927.  A  detailed  treatment  of  scattering  was  given 
by  Bohm  in  his  first  paper  on  de  Broglie-Bohm  theory  (Bohm  1952a). 

In  Bohm's  second  paper,  however,  appendix  B  gives  a  misleading 
account  of  the  de  Broglie-Pauli  encounter  at  the  fifth  Solvay  confer- 
ence (Bohm  1952b,  pp.  191-2),  and  this  seems  to  be  the  source  of 
the  widespread  misunderstandings  concerning  this  encounter.  Citing  the 
proceedings  of  the  fifth  Solvay  conference,  Bohm  wrote  the  following: 

De  Broglie's  suggestions  met  strong  objections  on  the  part  of  Pauli,  in  connec- 
tion with  the  problem  of  inelastic  scattering  of  a  particle  by  a  rigid  rotator. 
Since  this  problem  is  conceptually  equivalent  to  that  of  inelastic  scattering  of 
a  particle  by  a  hydrogen  atom,  which  we  have  already  treated  ....  ,  we  shall 
discuss  the  objections  raised  by  Pauli  in  terms  of  the  latter  example. 

Bohm  then  describes  'Pauli's  argument':  taking  the  incoming  particle  to 
have  a  plane  wave  function,  all  the  terms  in  ((3])  overlap,  so  that  'neither 
atom  nor  the  outgoing  particle  ever  seem  to  approach  a  stationary  ener- 
gy', contrary  to  what  is  observed  experimentally.  According  to  Bohm: 

Pauli  therefore  concluded  that  the  interpretation  proposed  by  de  Broglie  was 
untenable.  De  Broglie  seems  to  have  agreed  with  the  conclusion,  since  he 
subsequently  gave  up  his  suggested  interpretation. 

Bohm  then  gives  what  he  regards  as  his  own,  original  answer  to  Pauli's 
objection: 

....  as  is  well  known,  the  use  of  an  incident  plane  wave  of  infinite  extent  is  an 
excessive  abstraction,  not  realizable  in  practice.  Actually,  both  the  incident 
and  outgoing  parts  of  the  V-field  will  always  take  the  form  of  bounded  packets. 
Moreover,  ....  all  packets  corresponding  to  different  values  of  n  will  ultimately 


232 


Scattering  and  measurement  in  de  Broglie's  theory 


obtain  classically  describable  separations.  The  outgoing  particle  must  enter 
one  of  these  packets,  ....  leaving  the  hydrogen  atom  in  a  definite  but  correlated 
stationary  state. 

By  way  of  conclusion,  Bohm  writes: 

Thus,  Pauli's  objection  is  seen  to  be  based  on  the  use  of  the  excessively  abstract 
model  of  an  infinite  plane  wave. 

At  this  point,  in  the  light  of  what  we  have  said  above  about  the  use 
of  plane  waves  in  elementary  wave  optics  and  in  scattering  theory,  it 
is  natural  to  ask  how  a  physicist  of  Pauli's  abilities  could  have  made 
the  glaring  mistake  that  Bohm  claims  he  made.  In  fact,  as  we  shall 
see  in  the  next  section,  Pauli's  objection  was  not  based  on  a  failure  to 
appreciate  the  importance  of  the  finiteness  of  initial  wave  packets.  On  the 
contrary,  Pauli's  objection  shows  some  understanding  of  the  crucial  role 
played  by  limited  packets  in  pilot-wave  theory.  What  really  happened  is 
that  Pauli's  objection  involved  a  peculiar  and  misleading  analogy  with 
optics,  according  to  which  the  incident  packet  appeared  to  be  necessarily 
unlimited,  in  conditions  such  as  to  prevent  the  required  separation  into 
non-overlapping  components. 

10.2  Elastic  and  inelastic  scattering:  Born  and  Brillouin, 
Pauli  and  de  Broglie 

In  the  discussion  following  de  Broglie's  report,  Born  suggests  (p.  I398[l 
that  de  Broglie's  guidance  equation  will  fail  for  an  elastic  collision  bet- 
ween an  electron  and  an  atom.  Specifically,  Born  asks  if  the  electron 
speed  will  be  the  same  before  and  after  the  collision,  to  which  de  Broglie 
simply  replies  that  it  will. 

Later  in  the  same  discussion,  Brillouin  (pp.  I401lff.)  gives  an  extensive 
and  detailed  presentation,  explaining  how  de  Broglie's  theory  accounts 
for  the  elastic  scattering  of  a  photon  from  a  mirror.  Brillouin  is  quite  ex- 
plicit about  the  role  played  by  the  finite  extension  of  the  incident  packet. 
In  his  Fig.  2,  Brillouin  shows  an  incident  photon  trajectory  (at  angle  9 
to  the  normal)  guided  by  an  incoming  and  laterally-limited  packet.  The 
packet  is  reflected  by  the  mirror,  producing  an  outgoing  packet  that  is 
again  laterally-limited.  Near  the  mirror  there  is  an  interference  zone, 
where  the  incoming  and  outgoing  packets  overlap.  As  Brillouin  puts  it: 

Let  us  draw  a  diagram  for  the  case  of  a  limited  beam  of  light  falling  on  a  plane 
mirror;  the  interference  is  produced  in  the  region  of  overlap  of  two  beams. 


10.2  Elastic  and  inelastic  scattering 


233 


Brillouin  sketches  the  photon  trajectory,  which  curves  away  from  the 
mirror  as  it  enters  the  interference  zone,  moves  approximately  parallel 
to  the  mirror  while  in  the  interference  zone,  and  then  moves  away  again, 
eventually  settling  into  a  rectilinear  motion  guided  by  the  outgoing 
packet  (Brillouin's  Fig.  2).  Brillouin  describes  the  trajectory  thus: 

....  at  first  a  rectilinear  path  in  the  incident  beam,  then  a  bending  at  the  edge 
of  the  interference  zone,  then  a  rectilinear  path  parallel  to  the  mirror,  with  the 
photon  travelling  in  a  bright  fringe  and  avoiding  the  dark  interference  fringes; 
then,  when  it  comes  out,  the  photon  retreats  following  the  direction  of  the 
reflected  light  beam. 

Here  we  have  a  clear  description  of  an  incident  photon,  guided  by  a  finite 
packet  and  moving  uniformly  towards  the  mirror,  with  the  packet  then 
undergoing  interference  and  scattering,  while  the  photon  is  eventually 
carried  away  —  again  with  a  uniform  motion  —  by  a  finite  outgoing 
packet.  (The  ingoing  and  outgoing  motions  of  the  photon  are  strictly 
uniform,  of  course,  only  in  the  limit  where  the  guiding  packets  become 
infinitely  broad.) 

Despite  his  description  in  terms  of  finite  packets,  however,  in  order 
to  calculate  the  precise  motion  of  the  photon  in  the  interference  zone 
Brillouin  uses  the  standard  device  of  treating  the  incoming  packet  as  an 
infinite  plane  wave.  In  this  (abstract)  approximation,  he  shows  that  the 
photon  moves  parallel  to  the  mirror  with  a  speed  v  =  csm8.  Because 
the  incoming  packet  is  in  reality  limited,  a  photon  motion  parallel  to 
the  mirror  is  (approximately)  realised  only  in  the  interference  zone,  as 
Brillouin  sketches  in  his  accompanying  Fig.  2. 

While  Brillouin's  figure  shows  a  laterallydimited  packet,  it  is  clear 
from  subsequent  discussion  that  the  incident  packet  was  implicitly  re- 
garded as  limited  longitudinally  as  well  (as  of  course  it  must  be  in  any 
realistic  situation).  For  in  the  general  discussion  the  question  of  photon 
reflection  by  a  mirror  was  raised  again,  and  Einstein  asked  (p.  1498(1 
what  happens  in  de  Broglie's  theory  in  the  case  of  normal  incidence 
(8  =  0),  for  which  the  formula  v  =  c  sin  8  predicts  that  the  photons  will 
have  zero  speed.  Piccard  responded  to  Einstein's  query,  and  pointed 
out  that,  indeed,  the  photons  are  stationary  in  the  limiting  case  of 
normal  incidence.  The  meaning  of  this  exchange  between  Einstein  and 
Piccard  is  clear:  if  a  longitudinallydimited  packet  were  incident  normally 
on  the  mirror,  the  incident  packet  would  carry  the  photon  towards  the 
mirror;  in  the  region  where  the  incident  and  reflected  packets  overlap, 
the  photon  would  be  at  rest;  once  the  packet  has  been  reflected,  the 


234 


Scattering  and  measurement  in  de  Broglie's  theory 


photon  will  be  carried  away  by  the  outgoing  packet.  The  discussion  of 
the  case  of  normal  incidence  implicitly  assumes  that  the  incident  packet 
is  longitudinally-limited. 

Thus,  Brillouin's  example  of  photon  reflection  by  a  mirror  illustrates 
the  point  that  the  use  of  plane  waves  was  for  calculational  convenience 
only,  and  that,  when  it  came  to  the  discussion  of  real  physical  examples, 
it  was  clear  to  all  (and  hardly  worth  mentioning  explicitly)  that  incident 
waves  were  in  reality  limited  in  extent  (in  all  directions).  Brillouin's 
mathematical  use  of  plane  waves  parallels  their  use  in  the  general  theory 
of  scattering  sketched  in  section  110.11 

Elastic  scattering  is  also  discussed  in  de  Broglie's  report,  for  the 
particular  case  of  electrons  incident  on  a  fixed,  periodic  potential  —  the 
potential  generated  by  a  crystal  lattice.  This  case  is  especially  interesting 
in  the  present  context,  because  it  involves  the  separation  of  the  scattered 
wave  into  non-overlapping  packets  —  the  interference  maxima  of  diffe- 
rent orders,  well-known  from  the  theory  of  X-ray  diffraction  —  with  the 
particle  entering  just  one  of  these  packets  (a  point  that  is  relevant  to  a 
proper  understanding  of  the  de  Broglie-Pauli  encounter) .  Here  is  how  de 
Broglie  describes  the  diffraction  of  an  electron  wave  by  a  crystal  lattice 
(p.GBSJ: 

....  the  wave  $  will  propagate  following  the  general  equation,  in  which  one 
has  to  insert  the  potentials  created  by  the  atoms  of  the  crystal  considered  as 
centres  of  force.  One  does  not  know  the  exact  expression  for  these  potentials 
but,  because  of  the  regular  distribution  of  atoms  in  the  crystal,  one  easily 
realises  that  the  scattered  amplitude  will  show  maxima  in  the  directions 
predicted  by  Mr  von  Laue's  theory.  Because  of  the  role  of  pilot  wave  played 
by  the  wave  *P,  one  must  then  observe  a  selective  scattering  of  the  electrons 
in  these  directions. 

Again,  as  in  Brillouin's  discussion,  there  is  no  need  to  mention  explicitly 
the  obvious  point  that  the  incident  wave  W  will  be  spatially  limited. 

Let  us  now  turn  to  the  inelastic  case.  This  was  discussed  by  de  Broglie 
in  his  report,  in  particular  in  the  final  part,  which  includes  a  review 
of  recent  experiments  involving  the  inelastic  scattering  of  electrons  by 
atoms  of  helium.  De  Broglie  noted  that,  according  to  Born's  calculations 
(using  his  statistical  interpretation  of  the  wave  function) ,  the  differential 
cross  section  should  show  maxima  as  a  function  of  the  scattering  angle 
(p.  GUI: 

....  Mr  Born  has  studied  ....  the  collision  of  a  narrow  beam  of  electrons  with  an 
atom.  According  to  him,  the  curve  giving  the  number  of  electrons  that  have 


10.2  Elastic  and  inelastic  scattering 


235 


suffered  an  inelastic  collision  as  a  function  of  the  scattering  angle  must  show 
maxima  and  minima  

As  de  Broglie  then  discussed  in  detail,  such  maxima  had  been  observed 
experimentally  by  Dymond  (though  the  results  were  only  in  qualitative 
agreement  with  the  predictions).  Having  summarised  Dymond's  results, 
de  Broglie  commented  (p.  [392]): 

The  above  results  must  very  probably  be  interpreted  with  the  aid  of  the  new 
Mechanics  and  are  to  be  related  to  Mr  Born's  predictions. 

We  are  now  ready  for  a  close  examination  of  Pauli's  objection  in  the 
general  discussion,  according  to  which  there  is  a  difficulty  with  de  Bro- 
glie's  theory  in  the  case  of  inelastic  collisions.  That  there  might  be  such 
a  difficulty  was  in  fact  already  suggested  by  Pauli  a  few  months  earlier, 
in  a  letter  to  Bohr  dated  6  August  1927,  already  quoted  in  chapter O  As 
well  as  noting  the  exceptional  quality  of  de  Broglie's  'Structure'  paper 
(de  Broglie  1927b),  in  his  letter  Pauli  states  that  he  is  suspicious  of 
de  Broglie's  trajectories  and  cannot  see  how  the  theory  could  account 
for  the  discrete  energy  exchange  seen  in  individual  inelastic  collisions 
between  electrons  and  atoms  (Pauli  1979,  pp.  404-5).  (Such  discrete 
exchange  had  been  observed,  of  course,  in  the  Franck-Hertz  experiment.) 
This  is  essentially  the  objection  that  Pauli  raises  less  than  three  months 
later  in  Brussels. 

In  the  general  discussion  (p.  1509(1 .  Pauli  begins  by  stating  his  belief 
that  de  Broglie's  theory  works  for  elastic  collisions: 

It  seems  to  me  that,  concerning  the  statistical  results  of  scattering  experi- 
ments, the  conception  of  Mr  de  Broglie  is  in  full  agreement  with  Born's  theory 
in  the  case  of  elastic  collisions  

This  preliminary  comment  by  Pauli  is  significant.  For  if,  as  Bohm  asser- 
ted in  1952,  Pauli's  objection  was  based  on  'the  use  of  the  excessively 
abstract  model  of  an  infinite  plane  wave'  (Bohm  1952b,  p.  192),  then 
Pauli  would  have  regarded  de  Broglie's  theory  as  problematic  even  in 
the  elastic  case.  For  in  an  elastic  collision,  if  the  incident  wave  ipinc 
is  infinitely  extended  (a  plane  wave),  then  any  part  of  the  outgoing 
region  will  be  bathed  in  the  incident  wave:  the  scattered  particle  will 
inevitably  be  affected  by  both  parts  of  the  superposition  -0inc  +  ipse,  and 
will  never  settle  down  to  a  constant  speed.  Since  Pauli  agreed  that  the 
outgoing  speed  would  be  constant  in  the  elastic  case  —  as  de  Broglie 
had  asserted  (in  reply  to  Born)  in  the  discussion  following  his  report  — 


236  Scattering  and  measurement  in  de  Broglie's  theory 

Pauli  presumably  understood  that  the  finite  incident  packet  would  not 
affect  the  scattered  particle. 

Pauli  goes  on  to  claim  that  de  Broglie's  theory  will  not  work  for  inela- 
stic collisions,  in  particular  for  the  example  of  scattering  by  a  rotator. 
To  understand  Pauli's  point,  it  is  important  to  distinguish  between  the 
real  physical  situation  being  discussed,  and  the  optical  analogy  used  by 
Pauli  —  an  analogy  that  had  been  introduced  by  Fermi  as  a  convenient 
(and  as  we  shall  see  limited)  means  to  solve  the  scattering  problem. 
Pauli's  objection  is  framed  in  terms  of  Fermi's  analogy,  and  therein  lies 
the  confusion. 

The  real  physical  set-up  consists  of  an  electron  moving  in  the  (x,  y)- 
plane  and  colliding  with  a  rotator.  The  latter  is  a  model  scatteringcentre 
with  one  rotational  degree  of  freedom  represented  by  an  angle  t^lfj  Pauli 
took  the  initial  wave  function  to  be 

ifa(x,  y,  <p)  oc  e(*/n)(p*x+Pyy+P^)  t  (4) 

with  pv  restricted  to  pv  —  mh  (to  =  0, 1,  2, ...).  The  inelastic  scattering 
of  an  electron  by  a  rotator  had  been  treated  by  Fermi  (1926)  using  an 
analogy  with  optics,  according  to  which  the  (time-independent)  scat- 
tering of  an  electron  in  two  spatial  dimensions  by  a  rotator  is  mathe- 
matically equivalent  to  the  (time-independent)  scattering  of  a  (scalar) 
light  wave  ip(x,  y,  ip)  in  three  spatial  dimensions  by  an  infinite  diffraction 
grating,  with  ip  interpreted  as  a  third  spatial  coordinate  ranging  over  the 
whole  real  line  (— oo,+oo).  The  infinite  'grating'  constitutes  a  periodic 
potential,  arising  mathematically  from  the  periodicity  associated  with 
the  original  variable  ip.  Similarly,  the  function  ip(x,y,<p)  is  necessarily 
unlimited  along  the  i/j-axis.  By  construction,  then,  both  the  incident 
wave  and  the  grating  are  unlimited  along  the  tp-axis.  Fermi's  analogy  is 
useful,  because  the  different  spectral  orders  for  diffracted  beams  emer- 
ging from  the  grating  correspond  to  the  possible  final  (post-scattering) 
energy  states  of  the  rotator.  However,  as  we  shall  see,  Fermi's  analogy 
has  only  a  very  limited  validity. 

Pauli,  then,  presents  his  objection  in  terms  of  Fermi's  optical  analogy. 
He  says  (p.  f5TT|): 

It  is,  however,  an  essential  point  that,  in  the  case  where  the  rotator  is  in 
a  stationary  state  before  the  collision,  the  incident  wave  is  unlimited  in  the 

a  Classically,  a  rotator  might  consist  of  a  rigid  body  free  to  rotate  about  a  fixed 
axis.  The  quantum  rotator  was  known  to  have  a  discrete  spectrum  of  quantised 
energy  levels  (corresponding  to  quantised  states  of  angular  momentum),  and  was 
sometimes  considered  as  a  useful  and  simple  model  of  a  quantum  system. 


10.2  Elastic  and  inelastic  scattering 


237 


Fig.  10.1.  Scattering  of  a  laterally-limited  wave  by  a  finite  diffraction  grating, 
showing  the  separation  of  the  first-order  beams  from  the  zeroth-order  beam. 

direction  of  the  [</?-]axis.  For  this  reason,  the  different  spectral  orders  of  the 
grating  will  always  be  superposed  at  each  point  of  configuration  space.  If  we 
then  calculate,  according  to  the  precepts  of  Mr  de  Broglie,  the  angular  velocity 
of  the  rotator  after  the  collision,  we  must  find  that  this  velocity  is  not  constant. 

In  Fermi's  three-dimensional  analogy,  for  an  incident  beam  unlimited 
along  ip  (as  well  as  along  x  and  y)  the  scattered  waves  will  indeed 
overlap  everywhere.  The  final  configuration  will  then  be  guided  by  a 
superposition  of  all  the  final  energy  states,  and  the  final  velocity  of 
the  configuration  will  not  be  constant.  It  then  appears  (according  to 
Pauli)  that  the  final  angular  velocity  of  the  rotator  will  not  be  constant, 
contrary  to  what  is  expected  for  a  stationary  state,  and  that  there  will 
be  no  definite  outcome  for  the  scattering  experiment  (that  is,  no  definite 
final  energy  state  for  the  rotator). 

In  the  usual  discussion  of  diffraction  gratings  in  optics,  it  is  of  course 
assumed  that  both  the  grating  and  the  incident  beam  are  laterally 
limited,  so  that  the  emerging  beams  separate  as  shown  in  Fig.  110.11 
(where  only  the  zeroth-order  and  first-order  beams  are  drawn).  But  in 
Fermi's  analogy,  there  can  be  no  such  lateral  limitation  and  no  such 


238 


Scattering  and  measurement  in  de  Broglie's  theory 


Fig.  10.2.  Scattering  of  a  laterally-unlimited  wave  by  an  infinite  diffraction 
grating. 


separation.  It  might  be  thought  that,  in  the  case  of  no  lateral  limitation, 
separation  of  an  optical  beam  would  nevertheless  take  place  if  the  inci- 
dent wave  were  longitudinally  limited.  However,  as  shown  in  Fig.  110.21 
symmetry  dictates  that  there  will  be  no  beams  beyond  the  zeroth  order|f| 
Thus,  if  one  accepts  Fermi's  analogy  with  the  scattering  of  light  by  an 
infinite  grating,  even  if  one  takes  a  longitudinally-limited  incident  light 
wave,  there  will  still  be  no  separation  and  the  difficulty  remains  .  The 
only  way  to  obtain  a  separation  of  the  scattered  beams  is  through  a 
lateral  localisation  along  <p  —  and  according  to  Pauli's  argument  this  is 
impossible. 

According  to  Fermi's  analogy,  then,  it  is  inescapable  that  (for  an  initial 
stationary  state)  the  incident  wave  ip(x,  y,  cp)  is  unlimited  on  the  y-axis, 
and  one  cannot  avoid  the  conclusion  that  after  the  scattering  the  rotator 


a  Geometrically,  the  presence  of  diverging  higher-order  beams  (as  in  Fig. 110. l)  would 
define  a  preferred  central  point  on  the  grating.  Roughly  speaking,  if  one  considers 
Fig.  110.11  in  the  limit  of  an  infinite  grating  (and  of  a  laterally  unlimited  incident 
beam),  the  higher-order  emerging  beams  are  'pushed  off  to  infinity',  resulting  in 

Fig.CEO] 


10.2  Elastic  and  inelastic  scattering 


239 


need  not  be  in  a  definite  energy  eigenstate.  There  seems  to  be  no  way 
out  of  Pauli's  difficulty,  and  de  Broglie's  pilot-wave  theory  appears  to 
be  untenable. 

Today,  one  might  answer  Pauli's  objection  by  considering  the  measu- 
ring apparatus  used  to  detect  the  outgoing  scattered  particle  (or,  used  to 
measure  the  energy  of  the  atom) .  By  including  the  degrees  of  freedom  of 
the  apparatus  in  the  quantum  description,  one  could  obtain  a  separation 
of  the  total  wave  function  into  non-overlapping  branches,  resulting  in 
a  definite  quantum  outcome  (cf.  section  I10.3|l .  However,  in  1927  the 
measuring  apparatus  was  not  normally  considered  to  be  part  of  the 
quantum  system;  and  even  today,  in  the  pilot-wave  theory  of  scattering 
(sketched  in  section  110. ip ,  a  definite  outcome  is  generally  guaranteed 
by  the  separation  of  packets  for  the  scattered  particle.  As  we  shall  now 
show,  the  usual  pilot-wave  theory  of  scattering  in  fact  suffices  in  Pauli's 
example  too. 

To  see  how  Pauli's  objection  would  normally  be  met  today,  note  first 
that  in  Pauli's  example  the  real  physical  situation  consists  of  an  electron 
moving  in  two  spatial  dimensions  x,  y  and  colliding  with  a  rotator  whose 
angular  coordinate  ip  ranges  over  the  unit  circle  (from  0  to  2ir),  In  de 
Broglie's  dynamics,  the  wave  function  ij}(x,y,ip,i)  yields  velocities  x,y 
for  the  electron  and  ip  for  the  rotator,  where  these  velocities  are  given  by 
the  quantum  current  divided  by  \ip\  .  As  we  saw  in  the  case  of  inelastic 
scattering  by  an  atom,  the  final  wave  function  will  take  the  form 

ip(x,y,<fi,t)  = 

Mv)e~lEot/%nc(x,  y,t)  +  Y,  M<P)e~lEnt/nMx,  V,  t)  ,  (5) 

n 

where  now  the  <j>n  are  stationary  states  for  the  rotator.  Once  again, 
for  finite  (localised)  V'inc,  at  large  times  the  outgoing  wave  packets  ipn 
will  be  centred  on  a  radius  r„  =  (Hkn/m)t  from  the  scattering  re- 
gion, where  again  kn  is  the  outgoing  wave  number  fixed  by  energy 
conservation.  As  before,  because  the  ipn  expand  with  different  speeds 
they  eventually  become  widely  separated  in  space.  The  total  (electron- 
plus-rotator)  configuration  {x,  y,  ip)  will  then  occupy  only  one  branch 
^i{tp)e-iEit/h^i{x,y,t)  of  the  out  going  wave  function.  The  scattered 
electron  will  then  be  guided  by  t/>j  only,  and  the  speed  of  the  electron  will 
be  constant.  Further,  the  motion  of  the  rotator  will  be  determined  by 
the  stationary  state  4>i,  and  will  also  be  uniform.  As  long  as  the  incident 
wave  -0inc  is  localised  in  x  and  y,  the  final  wave  function  separates  in 


240 


Scattering  and  measurement  in  de  Broglie's  theory 


configuration  space  and  the  scattering  process  has  a  definite  outcome. 
Pauli's  objection  therefore  has  a  straightforward  answer. 

On  Fermi's  analogy,  however,  Pauli's  example  seems  to  be  equivalent 
to  the  scattering  of  a  laterally-unlimited  light  wave  in  three-dimensional 
space  by  an  infinite  grating,  for  which  no  separation  of  beams  can  take 
place.  Since,  for  the  original  system,  we  have  seen  that  the  final  state 
does  separate,  it  is  clear  that  Fermi's  analogy  must  be  mistaken  in  some 
way. 

To  see  what  is  wrong  with  Fermi's  analogy,  one  must  examine  Fermi's 
original  paper.  There,  Fermi  introduces  the  coordinates 

i  =  y/mx,      T]  =  y/my,      (  =  Vlip,  (6) 

and  writes  the  time-independent  Schrodinger  equation  —  for  the  com- 
bined rotator-plus-electron  system  of  total  energy  E  —  in  the  form 

d2ib     d2ib     d2ib      2  , 

where  the  potential  energy  V  is  a  periodic  function  of  £  with  period 
2-k\[~J .  Fermi  then  considers  an  optical  analogue  of  the  wave  equation 
0.  As  Fermi  puts  it  (Fermi  1926,  p.  400): 

In  order  to  see  the  solution  of  [10],  we  consider  the  optical  analogy  for  the  wave 
equation  [10].  In  the  regions  far  from  the  ("-axis,  where  V  vanishes,  [0]  is  the 
wave  equation  in  an  optically  homogeneous  medium;  in  the  neighbourhood  of 
the  £-axis,  the  medium  has  an  anomaly  in  the  refractive  index,  which  depends 
periodically  on  £.  Optically  this  is  nothing  more  than  a  linear  grating  of  period 
2irVJ. 

Fermi  then  goes  on  to  consider  a  plane  wave  striking  the  grating,  and 
relates  the  outgoing  beams  of  different  spectral  orders  to  different  types 
of  collisions  between  the  electron  and  the  rotator. 

Now,  if  we  include  the  time  dependence  ip  oc  e-(l/h)Et^  we  may  write 

2  „  ,         1  d2ib 


with  c  =  y/E/2,  and  (0  indeed  coincides  with  the  wave  equation  of 
scalar  optics  for  the  case  of  a  given  frequency.  However  —  and  here  is 
where  Fermi's  analogy  breaks  down  —  because  the  'speed  of  light'  c 
depends  on  the  energy  E  (or  frequency  E/h),  the  time  evolution  of  the 
system  in  regions  far  from  the  £-axis  is  in  general  not  equivalent  to  wave 
propagation  in  'an  optically  homogeneous  medium'.  The  analogy  holds 
only  for  one  energy  E  at  a  time  (which  is  all  Fermi  needed  to  consider) . 


10.2  Elastic  and  inelastic  scattering 


241 


In  a  realistic  case  where  the  (finite)  incident  electron  wave  is  a  sum  over 
different  momenta  —  and  as  we  have  said,  it  was  understood  that  in 
any  realistic  case  the  incident  wave  would  indeed  be  finite  and  therefore 
equal  to  such  a  sum  —  the  problem  of  scattering  by  the  rotator  cannot 
be  made  equivalent  to  the  scattering  of  light  by  a  grating  in  an  otherwise 
optically  homogeneous  medium:  on  the  contrary,  the  'speed  of  light'  c 
would  have  to  vary  as  the  square  root  of  the  frequency. 

Pauli's  presentation  does  not  mention  that  Fermi's  optical  analogy  is 
valid  only  for  a  single  frequency.  Since,  as  we  have  seen,  the  finiteness 
of  realistic  incident  packets  was  implicit  in  all  these  discussions,  the 
impression  was  probably  given  that  Fermi's  analogy  holds  generally.  A 
finite  (in  x  and  y)  electron  wave  incident  on  the  rotator  would  then  be 
expected  to  translate  into  a  longitudinally  finite  but  laterally  infinite 
(along  C)  light  wave  incident  on  an  infinite  grating,  with  a  resulting 
lack  of  separation  in  the  final  state.  Since,  however,  the  quantity  c  is 
frequency-dependent,  in  general  the  analogy  with  light  is  invalid  and 
the  conclusion  unwarranted. 

What  really  happens,  then,  in  the  two-dimensional  scattering  of  an 
electron  by  a  rotator,  if  one  interprets  the  angular  coordinate  ip  as  a 
third  spatial  axis  a  la  Fermi?  The  answer  is  found  in  a  detailed  discussion 
of  Pauli's  objection  given  by  de  Broglie,  in  a  book  published  in  1956, 
whose  chapter  14  bears  the  title  'Mr  Pauli's  objection  to  the  pilot-wave 
theory'  (de  Broglie  1956).  There,  de  Broglie  gives  what  is  in  fact  the 
first  proper  analysis  of  Pauli's  example  in  terms  of  pilot-wave  theory 
(with  one  spatial  dimension  suppressed  for  simplicity) .  The  result  of  de 
Broglie's  analysis  can  be  easily  seen  by  reconsidering  the  expression 
and  allowing  ip  to  range  over  the  real  line,  with  ip(x,  y,  cp,  t)  regarded  as 
a  periodic  function  of  ip  with  period  2ir.  Because  ip  separates  (as  we  have 
seen)  into  packets  that  are  non-overlapping  with  respect  to  x  and  y,  the 
time  evolution  of  ip  will  be  as  sketched  in  Fig.  110.31  (where  we  suppress 
y)  —  a  figure  that  we  have  adapted  from  de  Broglie's  book  (p.  176). 
The  figure  shows  a  wave  moving  along  the  x-axis  towards  the  rotator  at 
x  =  0.  The  wave  is  longitudinally  limited  (finite  along  x)  and  laterally 
unlimited  (infinite  along  ip) ,  and  separates  as  shown  into  similar  packets 
moving  at  different  speeds  after  the  scattering.  (Only  two  of  the  final 
packets  are  drawn.) 

The  different  speeds  of  the  packets  after  the  collision  correspond,  of 
course,  to  the  different  possible  kinetic  energies  of  the  electron  after  the 
collision.  Note  that  the  crucial  separation  into  packets  moving  at  diffe- 
rent speeds  would  be  ruled  out  if  one  were  to  mistakenly  accept  Fermi's 


242 


Scattering  and  measurement  in  de  Broglie 's  theory 


^  > 

i  > 

 > 

X 

Incident  wave 


Fig.  10.3.  True  evolution  of  the  electron-rotator  wave  function  in  Pauli's 
example.  Adapted  from  de  Broglie  (1956,  p.  176). 

analogy  with  light  scattering  'in  an  optically  homogeneous  medium'  — 
for  the  outgoing  packets  would  then  all  have  to  move  with  the  same 
speed  (that  of  light). 

A  complete  reply  to  Pauli's  original  objection  should  then  make  two 
points:  (1)  Because  of  the  frequency-dependent  'speed  of  light'  c  = 
y/E/2,  Fermi's  analogy  with  optics  is  of  very  limited  validity  and  cannot 
be  applied  to  a  real  case  with  a  finite  incident  wave.  (2)  For  a  finite 
incident  electron  wave,  a  separation  of  packets  does  in  fact  take  place 
with  respect  to  the  spatial  coordinates  of  the  electron. 

Let  us  now  examine  how  de  Broglie  replied  to  Pauli  in  October  1927, 
in  the  general  discussion.  As  will  become  clear,  de  Broglie  understood 
the  general  separation  mechanism  required  to  yield  a  definite  outcome, 
but  he  was  misled  by  the  (generally  false)  optical  analogy  and  phrased 
his  answer  in  terms  of  it. 

De  Broglie  replies  by  first  pointing  out  the  importance  of  having  a 
laterally-limited  incident  wave,  to  avoid  overlap  among  the  diffracted  be- 
ams, and  to  avoid  overlap  between  these  and  the  incident  wave  (p.  151 1)1 : 


10.2  Elastic  and  inelastic  scattering 


243 


The  difficulty  pointed  out  by  Mr  Pauli  has  an  analogue  in  classical  optics. 
One  can  speak  of  the  beam  diffracted  by  a  grating  in  a  given  direction  only 
if  the  grating  and  the  incident  wave  are  laterally  limited,  because  otherwise 
all  the  diffracted  beams  will  overlap  and  be  bathed  in  the  incident  wave.  In 
Fermi's  problem,  one  must  also  assume  the  wave  ip  to  be  limited  laterally  in 
configuration  space. 

De  Broglie  then  notes  that,  if  one  can  assume  ip  to  be  limited  laterally, 
then  the  system  velocity  will  become  constant  once  the  diffracted  waves 
have  separated  (from  each  other  and  from  the  incident  beam): 

....  the  velocity  of  the  representative  point  of  the  system  will  have  a  constant 
value,  and  will  correspond  to  a  stationary  state  of  the  rotator,  as  soon  as  the 
waves  diffracted  by  the  <y3-axis  will  have  separated  from  the  incident  beam. 

What  de  Broglie  is  describing  here  is  precisely  the  separation  into  non- 
overlapping  packets  in  configuration  space,  which  the  pilot  wave  must 
undergo  in  order  for  the  scattering  experiment  to  have  a  definite  outcome 
—  just  as  we  have  discussed  in  section  [10.11  above. 

However,  in  Pauli's  example,  it  appeared  that  the  incident  V  could 
not  be  limited  laterally.  On  this  point,  de  Broglie  claims  that  Fermi's 
configuration  space  is  artificial,  having  been  formed  'by  rolling  out  along 
a  line  the  cyclic  variable  ip'.  But  as  de  Broglie's  treatment  of  1956 
shows,  extending  the  range  of  ip  from  the  unit  circle  to  the  real  line 
does  not  really  make  any  difference:  it  simply  distributes  copies  of  the 
configuration  space  along  the  p-axis  (see  Fig.  110.3]). 

Pauli's  presentation  did  not  mention  the  frequency-dependent  speed 
c  =  and  in  his  reply  de  Broglie  did  not  mention  it  either.  Indeed, 

it  seems  that  neither  de  Broglie  in  1927  nor  Bohm  in  1952  noticed  this 
misleading  aspect  of  Pauli's  objection. 

Note  that  finiteness  of  the  incident  wave  with  respect  to  x  and  y 
had  not  been  questioned  by  anyone.  As  we  have  seen,  the  finite  spatial 
extension  of  realistic  wave  packets  was  implicitly  assumed  by  all.  Pauli 
had  raised  the  impossibility  of  finiteness  specifically  with  respect  to  the 
<£-axis,  and  de  Broglie  responded  on  this  specific  point  alone.  While  de 
Broglie  was  misled  by  Fermi's  analogy,  even  so  his  remarks  contain  the 
key  point,  later  developed  in  detail  by  Bohm  —  that  finiteness  of  the 
initial  packet  will  ensure  a  separation  into  non-overlapping  final  packets 
in  configuration  space.  As  de  Broglie  himself  put  it  in  his  book  of  1956, 
in  reference  to  his  1927  reply  to  Pauli:  'Thus  I  had  indeed  realised  .... 
that  the  answer  to  Mr  Pauli's  objection  had  to  rest  on  the  fact  that  the 


244  Scattering  and  measurement  in  de  Broglie's  theory 

wave  trains  are  always  limited,  an  idea  that  has  been  taken  up  again  by 
Mr  Bohm  in  his  recent  papers'  (de  Broglie  1956,  p.  176). 

Finally,  we  point  out  that  —  leaving  aside  the  misleading  nature  of 
Fermi's  optical  analogy  —  de  Broglie's  audience  may  well  have  under- 
stood his  description  of  wave  packets  separating  in  configuration  space, 
for  Born  had  already  described  something  very  similar  for  the  Wilson 
cloud  chamber,  earlier  in  the  general  discussion  (pp.  14821  ff.).  As  we  have 
seen  in  section  16.2)  Born  discussed  the  formation  of  a  track  in  a  cloud 
chamber  in  terms  of  a  branching  of  the  total  wave  function  in  a  multi- 
dimensional configuration  space  (formed  by  all  the  particles  involved). 
In  particular,  for  the  simple  case  of  an  a-particle  interacting  with  two 
atoms  in  one  dimension,  Born  described  an  initially  localised  packet 
that  separates  into  two  non-overlapping  branches  in  (three-dimensional) 
configuration  space  —  as  sketched  in  Born's  figure.  By  the  time  de 
Broglie  came  to  reply  to  Pauli,  then,  the  audience  was  already  familiar 
with  the  idea  of  a  wave  function  evolving  in  configuration  space  and 
developing  non-overlapping  branches.  Thus,  it  seems  more  likely  than 
not  that  this  aspect  of  de  Broglie's  reply  to  Pauli  would  have  been 
understood!! 

10.3  Quantum  measurement  in  pilot-wave  theory 

The  general  theory  of  quantum  measurement  in  pilot-wave  theory  was 
first  developed  by  Bohm  in  his  second  paper  on  the  theory  (Bohm 
1952b).  Bohm  understood  that  the  degrees  of  freedom  associated  with 
the  measurement  apparatus  were  simply  extra  coordinates  that  should 
be  included  in  the  total  system  (as  in,  for  example,  Born's  1927  dis- 
cussion of  the  cloud  chamber).  Thus,  denoting  by  x  the  coordinates  of 
the  'system'  and  y  the  coordinates  of  the  'apparatus',  the  dynamics 
generates  a  trajectory  (x(t),y(t))  for  the  total  configuration,  guided 
by  a  wave  function  *&(x,  y,  t)  (where  again  the  velocity  field  (x,y)  is 
given  by  the  quantum  current  of  W  divided  by  |^|2).  Bohm  showed 
how,  in  the  circumstances  corresponding  to  a  quantum  measurement,  W 

a  It  may  also  be  worth  noting  that,  in  his  report,  when  presenting  the  pilot-wave 
theory  of  many-body  systems,  de  Broglie  explicitly  asserts  (p.  I386|l  that  his 
probability  formula  in  configuration  space  'fully  accords  ....  with  the  results 
obtained  by  Mr  Born  for  the  collision  of  an  electron  and  an  atom,  and  by  Mr 
Fermi  for  the  collision  of  an  electron  and  a  rotator'.  Because  the  printed  version  of 
de  Broglie's  lecture  was  already  complete  by  the  time  the  conference  took  place, 
this  remark  could  not  have  been  added  after  de  Broglie's  clash  with  Pauli.  (De 
Broglie  wrote  to  Lorentz  on  11  October  1927  —  AHQP-LTZ-11,  in  French  —  that 
he  had  received  the  proofs  of  his  report  from  Gauthier-Villars  and  corrected  them.) 


10.3  Quantum  measurement  in  pilot-wave  theory 


245 


separates  into  non-overlapping  branches  and  the  system  coordinate  x(t) 
is  eventually  guided  by  an  effectively  'reduced'  packet  for  the  system. 
As  a  simple  example,  let  the  system  have  an  initial  wave  function 

V'oOe)  =  y^cn<j>n(x)  ,  (9) 

n 

where  the  </>„  are  eigenfunctions  of  some  Hermitian  operator  Q  with 
eigenvalues  qn.  Suppose  an  experiment  is  performed  that  in  quantum 
theory  would  be  called  'a  measurement  of  the  observable  Q\  This  might 
be  done  by  coupling  the  system  to  a  'pointer'  with  coordinate  y  and  in- 
itial wave  function  go{y),  where  go  is  narrowly  peaked  around  y  =  0.  An 
appropriate  coupling  might  be  described  by  an  interaction  Hamiltonian 
H  =  aQPy,  where  a  is  a  coupling  constant  and  Py  is  the  momentum 
operator  conjugate  to  y.  If  we  neglect  the  rest  of  the  Hamiltonian,  for 
an  initial  product  wave  function  H!o(x,y)  =  ''Poi^goiu)  the  Schrodinger 
equation 

a*        /      d  \ 

iH—  =  aQ    -ih—    *  (10) 


dt  \  dy 

has  the  solution 

^(x,y,t)  =  ^2cn(t>n(x)g0(y  -  aqnt)  .  (11) 

n 

Because  go  is  localised,  ^  evolves  into  a  superposition  of  terms  that 
separate  with  respect  to  y  (in  the  sense  of  having  negligible  overlap  with 
respect  to  y).  As  we  saw  in  the  case  of  scattering,  the  final  configuration 
(x,  y)  can  be  in  only  one  'branch'  of  the  superposition,  say  4>i(x)go(y  — 
aqit),  which  will  guide  (x(t),y(t))  thereafter.  And  because  the  active 
branch  is  a  product  in  x  and  y,  the  velocity  of  x  will  be  determined 
by  4>i(x)  alone.  In  effect,  at  the  end  of  the  quantum  measurement,  the 
system  is  guided  by  a  'reduced'  wave  function  <j)i{x).  Thus,  the  pointer 
plays  the  same  role  in  the  pilot-wave  theory  of  measurement  as  the 
scattered  particle  does  in  the  pilot-wave  theory  of  scattering. 

It  is  also  readily  shown  that,  if  the  initial  ensemble  of  x,  y  has  a 
distribution  |v&o(^,  y)\2 ,  then  the  probability  of  x,  y  ending  in  the  branch 
4>i(x)go(y  —  aqit)  is  given  by  |ci|2,  in  agreement  with  the  standard  Born 
rule. 

Finally,  again  as  we  saw  in  the  case  of  scattering,  the  effective  'collapse' 
to  the  state  (j>i(x)go(y  —  aqit)  is  for  all  practical  purposes  irreversible. 
As  noted  by  Bohm  (1952b,  p.  182),  the  apparatus  coordinate  y  will 
subsequently  interact  with  many  other  degrees  of  freedom,  making  it 


246  Scattering  and  measurement  in  de  Broglie's  theory 

very  unlikely  that  distinct  states  4>i(x)go(y  —  aqtt),  4>j(x)go(y  —  aqjt) 
(i  7^  j)  will  interfere  later  on,  because  the  associated  branches  of  the 
total  wave  function  would  have  to  overlap  with  respect  to  every  degree 
of  freedom  involved. 


10.4  Recoil  of  a  single  photon:  Kramers  and  de  Broglie 

We  have  sketched  the  pilot-wave  theory  of  quantum  measurement  to 
emphasise  that,  when  one  leaves  the  limited  domain  of  particle  scattering 
(by  atoms,  or  by  fixed  obstacles  such  as  mirrors  or  diffracting  screens), 
it  can  become  essential  to  describe  the  apparatus  itself  in  terms  of 
pilot- wave  dynamics.  In  some  situations,  the  coordinates  of  the  appa- 
ratus must  be  included  in  the  total  wave  function  (for  the  'supersystem' 
consisting  of  system  plus  apparatus),  to  ensure  that  the  total  wave 
function  separates  into  non-overlapping  branches  in  configuration  space. 

As  we  shall  see  in  chapterHH  it  seems  that  this  point  was  not  properly 
appreciated  by  de  Broglie  in  1927.  Indeed,  most  theoreticians  at  the 
time  simply  applied  quantum  theory  (in  whatever  form  they  preferred) 
to  microscopic  systems  only.  Macroscopic  apparatus  was  usually  treated 
as  a  given  classical  background.  However,  Born's  treatment  of  the  cloud 
chamber  in  the  general  discussion  shows  that  the  key  insight  was  alrea- 
dy known:  the  apparatus  is  made  of  atoms,  and  should  ultimately  be 
included  in  the  wave  function,  which  will  develop  a  branching  structure 
as  the  measurement  proceeds.  All  that  was  needed,  within  pilot-wave 
theory,  was  to  carry  through  the  details  properly  for  a  general  quantum 
measurement  —  something  that  de  Broglie  did  not  see  in  1927  and  that 
Bohm  did  see  in  1952. 

Now,  the  need  to  include  macroscopic  equipment  in  the  wave  function 
is  relevant  to  a  problem  raised  by  Kramers  in  the  general  discussion, 
concerning  the  recoil  of  a  mirror  due  to  the  reflection  of  a  single  photon. 
The  discussion  had  returned  to  the  question  of  how  de  Broglie's  theory 
accounts  for  radiation  pressure  on  a  mirror  (a  subject  that  had  been 
discussed  at  the  end  of  de  Broglie's  lecture).  As  Kramers  put  it  ^p.  1497)) : 

But  how  is  radiation  pressure  exerted  in  the  case  where  it  is  so  weak  that 
there  is  only  one  photon  in  the  interference  zone?  ....  And  if  there  is  only  one 
photon,  how  can  one  account  for  the  sudden  change  of  momentum  suffered  by 
the  reflecting  object? 

Neither  de  Broglie  nor  Brillouin  were  able  to  give  an  answer.  De  Broglie 


10.4  Recoil  of  a  single  photon 


247 


claimed  that  pilot-wave  theory  in  its  current  form  was  able  to  give  only 
the  mean  pressure  exerted  by  an  ensemble  (or  'cloud')  of  photons. 

What  was  missing  from  de  Broglie's  understanding  was  that,  in  such 
a  case,  the  position  of  the  mirror  would  have  to  be  treated  by  pilot-wave 
dynamics  and  included  in  the  wave  function.  Schematically,  let  xp  be 
the  position  of  the  photon  (on  an  axis  normal  to  the  surface  of  the 
mirror)  and  let  xm  be  the  position  of  the  reflecting  surface.  Let  us  treat 
the  mirror  as  a  very  massive  but  free  body,  with  initial  wave  function 
(j)(xm,Q)  localised  around  xm  =  0  (at  t  =  0).  The  incident  photon 
initially  has  a  localised  wave  function  ^inc^p,  0)  directed  towards  the 
mirror,  with  mean  momentum  Hk.  Roughly,  if  the  photon  packet  strikes 
the  mirror  at  time  to,  then  the  initial  total  wave  function  ^(xp,  xm,  0)  = 
il>inc(xp,  0)(j)(xm,  0)  will  evolve  into  a  wave  function  of  the  schematic  form 

*(xp,xm)t)  ~  Vw(zP,i)<Kzm  -  (Ap/M)(f  -  io),0)e^A^™  ,  (12) 

where  tpIC{  is  a  reflected  packet  directed  away  from  the  mirror,  Ap  —  2Hk 
is  the  momentum  transferred  to  the  mirror,  M  is  the  mass  of  the  mirror, 
and  4>(xm  —  {Ap/M){t  —  to),  0)  is  a  packet  (whose  spreading  we  ignore) 
moving  to  the  right  with  speed  Ap/M.  The  actual  coordinates  xp,xm 
will  be  guided  by  in  accordance  with  de  Broglie's  equation,  and  the 
position  xm(t)  of  the  mirror  will  follow  the  moving  packet.  The  recoil  of 
the  mirror  can  therefore  be  accounted  for. 

Thus,  while  de  Broglie  had  the  complete  pilot-wave  dynamics  of  a 
many-body  system,  he  seems  not  to  have  understood  that  it  is  sometimes 
necessary  to  include  the  coordinates  of  macroscopic  equipment  in  the 
pilot-wave  description.  Otherwise,  he  might  have  been  able  to  answer 
Kramers. 

On  the  other  hand,  in  ordinary  quantum  theory  too,  a  proper  expla- 
nation for  the  recoil  of  the  mirror  would  also  have  to  treat  the  mirror 
as  part  of  the  quantum  system.  If  the  mirror  is  regarded  as  a  classical 
object,  then  quantum  theory  would  strictly  speaking  be  as  powerless 
as  pilot-wave  theory.  Perhaps  this  is  why  Brillouin  made  the  following 
remark  (p.|497j): 

No  theory  currently  gives  the  answer  to  Mr  Kramers'  question. 


11 

Pilot-wave  theory  in  retrospect 


As  we  discussed  in  section  12.41  in  his  Solvay  lecture  of  1927  de  Bro- 
glie  presented  the  pilot-wave  dynamics  of  a  nonrelativistic  many-body 
system,  and  outlined  some  simple  applications  of  his  'new  dynamics  of 
quanta'  (to  interference,  diffraction,  and  atomic  transitions).  Further,  as 
we  saw  in  section  [10.21  contrary  to  a  widespread  misunderstanding,  in 
the  general  discussion  de  Broglie's  reply  to  Pauli's  objection  contained 
the  essential  points  needed  to  treat  inelastic  scattering  (even  if  Fermi's 
misleading  optical  analogy  confused  matters):  in  particular,  de  Broglie 
correctly  indicated  how  definite  quantum  outcomes  in  scattering  proces- 
ses arise  from  a  separation  of  wave  packets  in  configuration  space.  We 
also  saw  in  section  110.41  that  de  Broglie  was  unable  to  reply  to  a  query 
from  Kramers  concerning  the  recoil  of  a  single  photon  on  a  mirror:  to  do 
so,  he  would  have  had  to  introduce  a  joint  wave  function  for  the  photon 
and  the  mirror. 

De  Broglie's  theory  was  revived  by  Bohm  25  years  later  (Bohm  1952a, b) 
(though  with  the  dynamics  written  in  terms  of  a  law  for  acceleration 
instead  of  a  law  for  velocity).  Bohm's  truly  new  and  very  important 
contribution  was  a  pilot-wave  account  of  the  general  quantum  theory 
of  measurement,  with  macroscopic  equipment  (pointers,  etc.)  treated  as 
part  of  the  quantum  system.  In  effect,  in  1952  Bohm  provided  a  detailed 
derivation  of  quantum  phenomenology  from  de  Broglie's  dynamics  of 
1927  (albeit  with  the  dynamical  equations  written  differently). 

Despite  this  success,  until  about  the  late  1990s  most  physicists  still 
believed  that  hidden-variables  theories  such  as  de  Broglie's  could  not 
possibly  reproduce  the  predictions  of  quantum  theory  (even  for  simple 
cases  such  as  the  two-slit  experiment,  cf.  section ETTj) .  Or,  they  believed 
that  such  theories  had  been  disproved  by  experiments  testing  EPR-type 
correlations  and  demonstrating  violations  of  Bell's  inequality.  As  just  one 


248 


Pilot-wave  theory  in  retrospect 


249 


striking  example  of  the  latter  belief,  in  the  early  1990s  James  T.  Cus- 
hing,  then  a  professor  of  physics  and  of  philosophy  at  the  University  of 
Notre  Dame,  submitted  a  research  proposal  to  the  US  National  Science 
Foundation  'for  theoretical  work  to  be  done,  within  the  framework  of 
Bohm's  version  of  quantum  theory,  on  some  foundational  questions  in 
quantum  mechanics'  (Cushing  1996,  p.  6),  and  received  the  following 
evaluation: 

The  subject  under  consideration,  the  rival  Copenhagen  and  causal  (Bohm) 
interpretations  of  the  quantum  theory,  has  been  discussed  for  many  years 
and  in  the  opinion  of  several  members  of  the  Physics  Division  of  the  NSF, 
the  situation  has  been  settled.  The  causal  interpretation  is  inconsistent  with 
experiments  which  test  Bell's  inequalities.  Consequently  ....  funding  ....  a 
research  program  in  this  area  would  be  unwise.  (Cushing  1996,  p.  6) 

This  is  ironic  because,  as  even  a  superficial  reading  of  Bell's  original 
papers  shows,  the  nonlocal  theory  of  de  Broglie  and  Bohm  was  a  primary 
motivation  for  Bell's  work  on  his  famous  inequalities  (Bell  1964,  1966). 
Bell  knew  that  pilot-wave  theory  was  empirically  equivalent  to  quantum 
theory,  and  wanted  to  find  out  if  the  nonlocality  was  a  peculiarity  of  this 
particular  model,  or  if  it  was  a  general  feature  of  all  hidden-variables 
theories.  Bell's  conclusion  was  that  local  theories  have  to  satisfy  his 
inequality,  which  is  inconsistent  with  EPR-type  correlations,  and  that 
therefore  any  viable  theory  must  be  nonlocal  —  like  pilot-wave  theory. 
There  was  never  any  question,  in  experimental  tests  of  Bell's  inequality, 
of  testing  the  nonlocal  theory  of  de  Broglie  and  Bohm;  rather,  it  was  the 
class  of  local  theories  that  was  being  tested@ 

Despite  this  and  other  misunderstandings,  in  recent  years  the  pilot- 
wave  theory  of  de  Broglie  and  Bohm,  with  particle  trajectories  guided 
by  a  physically-real  wave  function,  has  gained  wide  acceptance  as  an 
alternative  (though  little  used)  formulation  of  quantum  theory.  While  it 
is  still  occasionally  asserted  that  any  theory  with  trajectories  (or  other 
hidden  variables)  must  disagree  with  experiment,  such  erroneous  claims 
have  become  much  less  frequent  0  This  change  in  attitude  seems  to  have 

a  See  chapter  9  of  Cushing  (1994)  for  an  extensive  discussion  of  the  generally  hostile 
reactions  to  and  misrepresentations  of  Bohm's  1952  papers. 

b  For  example,  in  his  book  The  Elegant  Universe,  Greene  (2000)  asserts  that  not 
only  are  quantum  particle  trajectories  unmeasurable  (because  of  the  uncertainty 
principle),  their  very  existence  is  ruled  out  by  experiments  testing  the  Bell 
inequalities:  theoretical  progress  spearheaded  by  the  late  Irish  physicist  John 
Bell  and  the  experimental  results  of  Alain  Aspect  and  his  collaborators  have 
shown  convincingly  that  ....  [electrons  —  and  everything  else  for  that  matter  — 
cannot  be  described  as  simultaneously  being  at  such-and-such  location  and  having 
such-and-such  speed'  (p.  114).  This  is  corrected  a  few  years  later  in  The  Fabric  of 


250 


Pilot-wave  theory  in  retrospect 


been  largely  a  result  of  the  publication  in  1987  of  Bell's  influential  book 
on  the  foundations  of  quantum  theory  (Bell  1987),  several  chapters  of 
which  consisted  of  pedagogical  explanations  of  pilot-wave  theory  as  an 
objective  and  deterministic  account  of  quantum  phenomena.  Leaving 
aside  the  question  of  whether  or  not  pilot-wave  theory  (or  de  Broglie- 
Bohm  theory)  is  closer  to  the  truth  about  the  quantum  world  than  other 
formulations,  it  is  a  remarkable  fact  that  it  took  about  three-quarters 
of  a  century  for  the  theory  to  become  widely  accepted  as  an  internally 
consistent  alternative. 

Even  today,  however,  there  are  widespread  misconceptions  not  only 
about  the  physics  of  pilot-wave  theory,  but  also  about  its  history.  It  is 
generally  recognised  that  de  Broglie  worked  along  pilot-wave  lines  in  the 
1920s,  that  Bohm  developed  and  extended  the  theory  in  1952,  and  that 
Bell  publicised  the  theory  in  his  book  in  1987.  But  the  full  extent  of  de 
Broglie's  contributions  in  the  1920s  is  usually  not  recognised. 

A  careful  examination  of  the  proceedings  of  the  fifth  Solvay  conference 
changes  our  perception  of  pilot-wave  theory,  both  as  a  physical  theory 
and  as  a  part  of  the  history  of  quantum  physics. 


11.1  Historical  misconceptions 

Many  of  the  widespread  misconceptions  about  the  history  of  pilot-wave 
theory  are  conveniently  summarised  in  the  following  extract  from  the 
book  by  Bohm  and  Hiley  (1993,  pp.  38-9): 

The  idea  of  a  'pilot  wave'  that  guides  the  movement  of  the  electron  was  first 
suggested  by  de  Broglie  in  1927,  but  only  in  connection  with  the  one-body 
system.  De  Broglie  presented  this  idea  at  the  1927  Solvay  Congress  where  it 
was  strongly  criticised  by  Pauli.  His  most  important  criticism  was  that,  in 
a  two-body  scattering  process,  the  model  could  not  be  applied  coherently.  In 
consequence  de  Broglie  abandoned  his  suggestion.  The  idea  of  a  pilot  wave  was 
proposed  again  in  1952  by  Bohm  in  which  an  interpretation  for  the  many-body 
system  was  given.  This  latter  made  it  possible  to  answer  Pauli's  criticism  .... 
0 

As  we  have  by  now  repeatedly  emphasised,  in  his  1927  Solvay  report 
(pp.  13841  f.)  de  Broglie  did  in  fact  present  pilot-wave  theory  in  confi- 
guration space  for  a  many-body  system,  not  just  the  one-body  theory 

the  Cosmos,  where,  commenting  on  'Bohm's  approach'  Greene  (2005)  writes  that 
it  'does  not  fall  afoul  of  Bell's  results  because  ....  possessing  definite  properties 
forbidden  by  quantum  uncertainty  is  not  ruled  out;  only  locality  is  ruled  out  ....  ' 
(p.  206,  original  italics), 
a  Similar  historical  misconceptions  appear  in  Cushing  (1994,  pp.  118-21,  149). 


11.1  Historical  misconceptions  251 

in  3-space;  and  further,  as  we  saw  in  section  I10.2[  de  Broglie's  reply 
to  Pauli's  criticism  contained  the  essential  ideas  needed  for  a  proper 
rebuttal@  As  we  shall  see  below,  the  claim  that  de  Broglie  abandoned 
his  theory  because  of  Pauli's  criticism  is  also  not  true. 

Contrary  to  widespread  belief,  then,  the  many-body  theory  with  a 
guiding  wave  in  configuration  space  is  originally  due  to  de  Broglie  and 
not  Bohm;  and  in  1927,  de  Broglie  did  understand  the  essentials  of  the 
pilot-wave  theory  of  scattering.  Thus  the  main  content  of  Bohm's  first 
paper  of  1952  (Bohm  1952a)  —  which  presents  the  dynamics  (though 
in  terms  of  acceleration) ,  with  applications  to  scattering  —  was  already 
known  to  de  Broglie  in  1927. 

Note  that  the  theory  was  regarded  as  only  provisional,  by  both  de 
Broglie  in  1927  and  by  Bohm  in  1952.  In  particular,  as  we  saw  in 
sections  12.3.21  and  12.41  de  Broglie  regarded  the  introduction  of  a  pilot 
wave  in  configuration  space  as  a  provisional  measure.  Bohm,  on  the  other 
hand,  suggested  that  the  basic  principles  of  the  theory  would  break  down 
at  nuclear  distances  of  order  10-13  cm  (Bohm  1952a,  pp.  178-9). 

As  we  have  said,  in  contrast  with  de  Broglie's  presentation  of  1927, 
Bohm's  dynamics  of  1952  was  based  on  acceleration,  not  velocity.  For  de 
Broglie,  the  basic  law  of  motion  for  particles  with  masses  m,  and  wave 
function     =  \$>\  e^/'i's  was  the  guidance  equation 

mi~dT  =     '  ^ 

whereas  for  Bohm,  the  basic  law  of  motion  was  the  Newtonian  equation 


where 


^Yim  (3) 


is  the  'quantum  potential'. 

Taking  the  time  derivative  of  |l])  and  using  the  Schrodinger  equation 
yields  precisely  |(2]).  For  Bohm,  however,  (l}  was  not  a  law  of  motion 
but  rather  a  constraint  —  ViS  to  be  imposed  on  the  initial  momenta 
(Bohm  1952a,  p.  170).  This  initial  constraint  happens  to  be  preserved 
in  time  by  J2]),  which  Bohm  regarded  as  the  true  law  of  motion.  Indeed, 


a  To  our  knowledge,  Bonk  (1994)  is  the  only  other  author  to  have  noticed  that  de 
Broglie's  reply  to  Pauli  was  indeed  along  the  right  lines. 


252 


Pilot-wave  theory  in  retrospect 


Bohm  suggested  that  the  initial  constraint  Pi  =  V;5  could  be  relaxed, 
leading  to  corrections  to  quantum  theory: 

....  this  restriction  is  not  inherent  in  the  conceptual  structure  ....  it  is  quite 
consistent  in  our  interpretation  to  contemplate  modifications  in  the  theory, 
which  permit  an  arbitrary  relation  between  p  and  VS'(x).  (Bohm  1952a, 
pp.  170-71) 

For  de  Broglie,  in  contrast,  there  was  never  any  question  of  relaxing  (JTJ) : 
he  regarded  |T])  as  the  basic  law  of  motion  for  a  new  form  of  particle 
dynamics,  and  indeed  for  him  ([I])  embodied  —  as  we  saw  in  chapter[2] — 
the  unification  of  the  principles  of  Maupertuis  and  Fermat,  a  unification 
that  he  regarded  as  the  guiding  principle  of  his  new  dynamics.  (De 
Broglie  did  mention  in  passing,  however,  the  alternative  formulation  in 
terms  of  acceleration,  both  in  his  'Structure'  paper  (cf.  section  I2.3.ip 
and  in  his  Solvay  report  (p. [383]).) 

Some  authors  seem  to  believe  that  the  'recasting'  of  Bohm's  second- 
order  dynamics  into  first-order  form  was  due  to  Bell  (1987).  But  in  fact, 
Bell's  (pedagogical)  presentation  of  the  theory  —  based  on  the  guidance 
equation  for  velocity,  and  ignoring  the  notion  of  quantum  potential  — 
was  identical  to  de  Broglie's  original  presentation.  De  Broglie's  first-order 
dynamics  of  1927  is  sometimes  referred  to  as  'Bohmian  mechanics'.  As 
already  noted  in  chapter  [21  this  is  a  misnomer:  firstly  because  of  de 
Broglie's  priority,  and  secondly  because  Bohm's  mechanics  of  1952  was 
actually  second-order  in  time. 

Another  common  historical  misconception  concerns  the  reception  of  de 
Broglie's  theory  at  the  Solvay  conference.  It  is  usually  said  that  de  Bro- 
glie's ideas  attracted  hardly  any  attention.  It  is  difficult  to  understand 
how  such  an  impression  originated,  for  even  a  cursory  perusal  of  the 
proceedings  reveals  that  de  Broglie's  theory  was  extensively  discussed, 
both  after  de  Broglie's  lecture  and  during  the  general  discussion.  Nevert- 
heless, in  his  classic  account  of  the  historical  development  of  quantum 
theory,  Jammer  asserts  that  when  de  Broglie  presented  his  theory: 

It  was  immediately  clear  that  nobody  accepted  his  ideas  In  fact,  with  the 

exception  of  some  remarks  by  Pauli  ....  de  Broglie's  causal  interpretation  was 
not  even  further  discussed  at  the  meeting.  Only  Einstein  once  referred  to  it 
en  passant.  (Jammer  1966,  p.  357)0 

a  Jammer  adds  footnoted  references  to  pp.  280  and  256  respectively  of  the  original 
proceedings,  where  Pauli's  objection  (involving  Fermi's  treatment  of  the  rotator) 
appears,  and  where,  in  his  main  contribution  to  the  general  discussion,  Einstein 
comments  that  in  his  opinion  de  Broglie  'is  right  to  search  in  this  direction'  (p.!487t. 


11.1  Historical  misconceptions 


253 


It  appears  to  have  escaped  Jammer's  attention  that  the  general  dis- 
cussion contains  extensive  and  varied  comments  on  many  aspects  of 
de  Broglie's  theory  (including  a  query  by  Einstein  about  the  speed  of 
photons),  as  does  the  discussion  after  de  Broglie's  lecture,  and  that 
support  for  de  Broglie's  ideas  was  expressed  by  Brillouin  and  by  Einstein. 

In  a  later  historical  study,  again,  Jammer  (1974,  pp.  110-11)  writes  — 
in  reference  to  the  fifth  Solvay  conference  —  that  de  Broglie's  theory  'was 
hardly  discussed  at  all',  and  that  'the  only  serious  reaction  came  from 
Pauli'.  In  the  same  study,  Jammer  quotes  extensively  from  de  Broglie's 
report  and  from  the  general  discussion,  apparently  without  noticing  the 
extensive  discussions  of  de  Broglie's  theory  that  appear  both  after  de 
Broglie's  report  and  in  the  general  discussion. 

But  Jammer  is  by  no  means  the  only  historian  to  have  given  short 
shrift  to  de  Broglie's  major  presence  at  the  1927  Solvay  conference. 

In  his  book  The  Solvay  Conferences  on  Physics,  Mehra  (1975,  p.  xvi) 
quotes  de  Broglie  himself  as  saying,  with  reference  to  his  presentation  of 
pilot-wave  theory  in  1927,  that  'it  received  hardly  any  attention'.  But 
these  words  were  written  by  de  Broglie  some  46  years  later  (de  Broglie 
1974),  and  de  Broglie's  recollection  (or  misrecollection)  after  nearly  half 
a  century  is  belied  by  the  content  of  the  published  proceedings  B 

In  volume  6  of  their  monumental  The  Historical  Development  of  Quan- 
tum Theory,  Mehra  and  Rechenberg  (2000,  pp.  246-50)  devote  several 
pages  to  the  published  proceedings  of  the  1927  Solvay  conference,  focus- 
sing on  the  general  discussion  —  mainly  on  the  comments  by  Einstein, 
Dirac  and  Heisenberg  —  as  well  as  on  the  unpublished  comments  by 
Bohr.  The  rest  of  the  general  discussion  is  summarised  in  a  single  sen- 
tence (p.  250): 

After  the  Einstein-Pauli-Dirac-Heisenberg  exchange,  the  general  discussion 
turned  to  more  technical  problems  connected  with  the  description  of  photons 
and  electrons  in  quantum  mechanics,  as  well  as  with  the  details  of  de  Broglie's 
recent  ideas. 

It  is  added  that  'though  these  points  possess  some  intrinsic  interest,  they 
do  not  throw  much  light  on  the  interpretation  debate'. 

As  we  shall  see  in  section  [12. 1\  it  would  appear  that,  for  Mehra  and 
Rechenberg,  as  indeed  for  most  commentators,  the  'interpretation  deba- 
te' centred  mainly  around  private  or  semi-private  discussions  between 
Bohr  and  Einstein,  and  that  the  many  pages  of  published  discussions 

a  In  fact,  several  commentators  have  drawn  erroneous  conclusions  about  de  Broglie, 
by  relying  on  mistaken  'recollections'  written  by  de  Broglie  himself  decades  later. 


254 


Pilot-wave  theory  in  retrospect 


were  of  comparatively  little  interest.  Thus  the  remarkable  downplaying 
of  the  discussion  of  de  Broglie's  theory,  as  well  as  of  other  ideas,  is 
coupled  with  a  strong  tendency  —  on  the  part  of  many  authors  —  to 
portray  (incorrectly)  the  1927  conference  as  focussed  primarily  on  the 
confrontation  between  Bohr  and  Einstein. 

We  have  already  noted  the  widespread  historical  misconceptions  con- 
cerning the  de  Broglie-Pauli  encounter  in  the  general  discussion.  A  re- 
lated misconception  concerns  de  Broglie's  thinking  in  the  immediate 
aftermath  of  the  Solvay  conference.  It  is  often  asserted  that,  soon  after 
the  conference,  de  Broglie  abandoned  his  theory  primarily  because  of 
Pauli's  criticism.  This  is  not  correct.  In  his  book  An  Introduction  to 
the  Study  of  Wave  Mechanics  (de  Broglie  1930),  which  was  published 
just  three  years  after  the  Solvay  meeting,  de  Broglie  gives  three  main 
reasons  for  why  he  considers  his  pilot-wave  theory  to  be  unsatisfactory. 
First,  de  Broglie  considers  (p.  120)  a  particle  incident  on  an  imper- 
fectly reflecting  mirror,  and  notes  that  if  the  particle  is  found  in  the 
transmitted  beam  then  the  reflected  part  of  the  wave  must  disappear 
(this  being  'a  necessary  consequence  of  the  interference  principle').  De 
Broglie  concludes  that  'the  wave  is  not  a  physical  phenomenon  in  the 
old  sense  of  the  word.  It  is  of  the  nature  of  a  symbolic  representation  of 
a  probability  ....  '.  Here,  de  Broglie  did  not  understand  how  pilot-wave 
theory  accounts  for  the  effective  (and  practically  irreversible)  collapse  of 
the  wave  packet,  by  means  of  a  separation  into  non-overlapping  branches 
involving  many  degrees  of  freedom  (cf.  sections  scat-in-pwt  and  I10.3|l . 
Second,  de  Broglie  notes  (pp.  121,  133)  that  a  particle  in  free  space 
guided  by  a  superposition  of  plane  waves  would  have  a  rapidly-varying 
velocity  and  energy,  and  he  cannot  see  how  this  could  be  consistent  with 
the  outcomes  of  quantum  energy  measurements,  which  would  coincide 
strictly  with  the  energy  eigenvalues  present  in  the  superposition.  To 
solve  this  second  problem,  de  Broglie  would  have  had  to  apply  pilot-wave 
dynamics  to  the  process  of  quantum  measurement  itself  —  including  the 
apparatus  in  the  wave  function  if  necessary  —  as  done  much  later  by 
Bohm  (see  sectiorJTIOl  ).  This  question  of  energy  measurement  bears 
some  similarity  to  that  raised  by  Pauli,  and  perhaps  Pauli's  query  set 
de  Broglie  thinking  about  this  problem.  But  even  so,  de  Broglie  in 
effect  gave  the  essence  of  a  correct  reply  to  Pauli's  query,  and  the 
problem  of  energy  measurement  was  posed  by  de  Broglie  himself.  Third, 
in  applying  pilot-wave  theory  to  photons,  de  Broglie  finds  (p.  132)  that 
in  some  circumstances  (specifically,  in  the  interference  zone  close  to  an 
imperfectly  reflecting  mirror)  the  photon  trajectories  have  superluminal 


11.1  Historical  misconceptions 


255 


speeds,  which  he  considers  unacceptable.  De  Broglie's  book  does  not 
mention  Pauli's  criticism. 

It  is  also  often  claimed  that,  when  de  Broglie  abandoned  his  pilot-wave 
theory  (soon  after  the  Solvay  conference),  he  quickly  adopted  the  views 
of  Bohr  and  Heisenberg.  Thus,  for  example,  Cushing  (1994,  p.  121) 
writes:  'By  early  1928  he  [de  Broglie]  had  decided  to  adopt  the  views  of 
Bohr  and  Heisenberg'0  But  de  Broglie's  book  of  1930,  in  which  the  above 
difficulties  with  pilot-wave  theory  are  described,  contains  a  'General 
introduction'  that  is  'the  reproduction  of  a  communication  made  by  the 
author  at  the  meeting  of  the  British  Association  for  the  Advancement 
of  Science  held  in  Glasgow  in  September,  1928'  (de  Broglie  1930,  p.  1). 
This  introduction  therefore  gives  an  overview  of  de  Broglie's  thinking 
in  late  1928,  almost  a  year  after  the  fifth  Solvay  conference.  While  de 
Broglie  makes  it  clear  (p.  7)  that  in  his  view  it  is  'not  possible  to  regard 
the  theory  of  the  pilot-wave  as  satisfactory',  and  states  that  the  'point 
of  view  developed  by  Heisenberg  and  Bohr  ....  appears  to  contain  a  large 
body  of  truth',  his  concluding  paragraph  shows  that  he  was  still  not 
satisfied: 

To  sum  up,  the  physical  interpretation  of  the  new  mechanics  remains  an 
extremely  difficult  question  ....  the  dualism  of  waves  and  particles  must  be 

admitted         Unfortunately  the  profound  nature  of  the  two  members  in  this 

duality  and  the  precise  relation  existing  between  them  still  remain  a  mystery, 
(de  Broglie  1930,  p.  10) 

At  that  time,  de  Broglie  seems  to  have  accepted  the  formalism  of  quantum 
theory,  and  the  statistical  interpretation  of  the  wave  function,  but  he 
still  thought  that  an  adequate  physical  understanding  of  wave-particle 
duality  had  yet  to  be  reached.  Yet  another  year  later,  in  December  1929, 
doubts  about  the  correct  interpretation  of  quantum  theory  could  still  be 
discerned  in  de  Broglie's  Nobel  Lecture  (de  Broglie  1999): 

Is  it  even  still  possible  to  assume  that  at  each  moment  the  corpuscle  occupies  a 
well-defined  position  in  the  wave  and  that  the  wave  in  its  propagation  carries 
the  corpuscle  along  in  the  same  way  as  a  wave  would  carry  along  a  cork? 
These  are  difficult  questions  and  to  discuss  them  would  take  us  too  far  and 
even  to  the  confines  of  philosophy.  All  that  I  shall  say  about  them  here  is 
that  nowadays  the  tendency  in  general  is  to  assume  that  it  is  not  constantly 
possible  to  assign  to  the  corpuscle  a  well-defined  position  in  the  wave. 

a  As  evidence  for  this,  Cushing  cites  later  recollections  by  de  Broglie  in  his  book 
Physics  and  Microphysics  (de  Broglie  1955),  which  was  originally  published  in 
French  in  1947.  Again,  de  Broglie's  recollections  decades  later  do  not  seem  a  reliable 
guide  to  what  actually  happened  circa  1927. 


256 


Pilot-wave  theory  in  retrospect 


This  brings  us  to  another  historical  misconception  concerning  de  Bro- 
glie's  work.  Nowadays,  de  Broglie-Bohm  theory  is  often  presented  as 


arbitrary  addition  to  or  amendment  of  the  quantum  formalism,  the 
trajectories  being  viewed  as  an  additional  'baggage'  being  appended 
to  an  already  given  formalism.  Regardless  of  the  truth  or  otherwise  of 
pilot- wave  theory  as  a  physical  theory,  such  a  view  certainly  does  not  do 
justice  to  the  historical  facts.  For  the  elements  of  pilot-wave  theory  — 
waves  guiding  particles  via  de  Broglie's  velocity  formula  —  were  already 
in  place  in  de  Broglie's  thesis  of  1924,  before  either  matrix  or  wave 
mechanics  existed.  And  it  was  by  following  the  lead  of  de  Broglie's  thesis 
that  Schrodinger  developed  the  wave  equation  for  de  Broglie's  matter 
waves.  While  Schrodinger  dropped  the  trajectories  and  considered  only 
the  waves,  nevertheless,  historically  speaking  the  wave  function  ip  and 
the  Schrodinger  equation  both  grew  out  of  de  Broglie's  phase  waves@ 

The  pilot-wave  theory  of  1927  was  the  culmination  of  de  Broglie's 
independent  work  from  1923,  with  a  major  input  from  Schrodinger  in 
1926.  There  is  no  sense  in  which  de  Broglie's  trajectories  were  ever  'added 
to'  some  pre-existing  theory.  And  when  Bohm  revived  the  theory  in 
1952,  while  it  may  have  seemed  to  Bohm's  contemporaries  (and  indeed 
to  Bohm  himself)  that  he  was  adding  something  to  quantum  theory, 
from  a  historical  point  of  view  Bohm  was  simply  reinstating  what  had 
been  there  from  the  beginning. 

The  failure  to  acknowledge  the  priority  of  de  Broglie's  thinking  from 
1923  is  visible  even  in  the  discussions  of  1927.  In  the  discussion  following 
de  Broglie's  lecture,  Pauli  (p.  [399])  presents  what  he  claims  is  the  central 
idea  of  de  Broglie's  theory: 

I  should  like  to  make  a  small  remark  on  what  seems  to  me  to  be  the  mathe- 
matical basis  of  Mr  de  Broglie's  viewpoint  concerning  particles  in  motion  on 
definite  trajectories.  His  conception  is  based  on  the  principle  of  conservation 
of  charge  ....  if  in  a  field  theory  there  exists  a  conservation  principle  ....  it 
is  always  formally  possible  to  introduce  a  velocity  vector  ...  and  to  imagine 
furthermore  corpuscles  that  move  following  the  current  lines  of  this  vector. 

Pauli's  assertion  that  de  Broglie's  theory  is  based  on  the  conservation 
of  charge  makes  sense  only  for  one  particle:  for  a  many-body  system, 
de  Broglie's  velocity  field  is  associated  with  conservation  of  probability 
in  configuration  space,  whereas  conservation  of  charge  is  always  tied 

a  An  often-cited  motivation  for  introducing  the  trajectories  is,  of  course,  to  solve 

the  measurement  problem, 
b  See  also  the  discussion  in  section  B~5l 


sometimes  view  this  as  an 


11.1  Historical  misconceptions 


257 


to  3-space.  Still,  the  point  remains  that  in  any  theory  with  a  locally 
conserved  probability  current,  it  is  indeed  possible  to  introduce  par- 
ticle trajectories  following  the  flow  lines  of  that  current.  This  way  of 
presenting  de  Broglie's  theory  then  makes  the  trajectories  look  like  an 
addendum  to  a  pre-existing  structure:  given  the  Schrodinger  equation 
with  its  locally  conserved  current,  one  can  add  trajectories  if  one  wishes. 
But  to  present  the  theory  in  this  way  is  a  major  distortion  of  the 
historical  facts  and  priorities.  The  essence  of  de  Broglie's  dynamics  came 
before  Schrodinger's  work,  not  after.  Further,  de  Broglie  obtained  his 
velocity  law  not  from  the  Schrodinger  current  (which  was  unknown  in 
1923  or  1924)  but  from  his  postulated  relation  between  the  principles 
of  Maupertuis  and  Fermat.  And  finally,  while  de  Broglie's  trajectory 
equation  did  not  in  fact  owe  anything  to  the  Schrodinger  equation,  again, 
the  latter  equation  arose  out  of  considerations  (of  the  optical- mechanical 
analogy)  that  had  been  initiated  by  de  Broglie.  It  seems  rather  clear 
that  the  historical  priority  of  de  Broglie's  work  was  being  downplayed 
by  Pauli's  remarks,  as  it  has  been  more  or  less  ever  since. 

A  related  historical  misconception  concerns  the  status  of  the  Schro- 
dinger equation  in  pilot-wave  theory.  It  is  sometimes  argued  that  this 
equation  has  no  natural  place  in  the  theory,  and  that  therefore  the  theory 
is  artificial.  For  example,  commenting  on  what  he  calls  'Bohm's  theory', 
Polkinghorne  (2002,  pp.  55,  89)  writes: 

There  is  an  air  of  contrivance  about  it  that  makes  it  unappealing.  For  example, 
the  hidden  wave  has  to  satisfy  a  wave  equation.  Where  does  this  equation 
come  from?  The  frank  answer  is  out  of  the  air  or,  more  accurately,  out  of 
the  mind  of  Schrodinger.  To  get  the  right  results,  Bohm's  wave  equation 
must  be  the  Schrodinger  equation,  but  this  does  not  follow  from  any  internal 
logic  of  the  theory  and  it  is  simply  an  ad  hoc  strategy  designed  to  produce 

empirically  acceptable  answers  It  is  on  these  grounds  that  most  physicists 

find  the  greatest  difficulty  with  Bohmian  ideas  ....  the  ad  hoc  but  necessary 
appropriation  of  the  Schrodinger  equation  as  the  equation  for  the  Bohmian 
wave  has  an  unattractively  opportunist  air  to  it. 

Polkinghorne's  comments  are  a  fair  criticism  of  Bohm's  1952  reformula- 
tion of  de  Broglie's  theory.  For  as  we  have  seen,  Bohm  based  his  presen- 
tation on  the  Newtonian  equation  of  motion  <[2j)  for  acceleration,  with 
a  'quantum  potential'  Q  determined  by  the  wave  function  'F  through 
|(3]):  according  to  Bohm,  'F  generates  a  'quantum  force'  —  VjQ,  which 
accounts  for  quantum  effects.  From  this  Newtonian  standpoint,  the  wave 
equation  for  ^  does  indeed  have  nothing  to  do  with  the  internal  logic 
of  the  theory:  it  is  then  fair  to  say  that,  in  Bohm's  formulation,  the 


258 


Pilot-wave  theory  in  retrospect 


Schrodinger  equation  is  'appropriated'  for  a  purpose  quite  foreign  to 
the  origins  of  that  equation.  However,  Polkinghorne's  critique  does  not 
apply  to  pilot-wave  theory  in  its  original  de  Broglian  formulation,  as 
a  new  form  of  dynamics  in  which  particle  velocities  are  determined  by 
guiding  waves  (rather  than  particle  accelerations  being  determined  by 
Newtonian  forces).  For  as  a  matter  of  historical  fact,  the  Schrodinger 
equation  did  follow  from  the  internal  logic  of  de  Broglie's  theory.  After 
all,  Schrodinger  set  out  in  the  first  place  to  find  the  general  wave  equation 
for  de  Broglie's  waves;  and  his  derivation  of  that  equation  owed  much 
to  the  optical-mechanical  analogy,  which  was  a  key  component  of  de 
Broglie's  approach  to  dynamics^  It  cannot  be  said  that  de  Broglie 
'appropriated'  the  Schrodinger  equation  for  a  purpose  foreign  to  its 
origins,  when  the  original  purpose  of  the  Schrodinger  equation  was  in 
fact  to  describe  de  Broglie's  waves. 


11.2  Why  was  de  Broglie's  theory  rejected? 

One  might  ask  why  de  Broglie's  theory  did  not  gain  widespread  support 
soon  after  1927.  This  question  has  been  considered  by  Bonk  (1994), 
who  applies  Bayesian  reasoning  to  some  of  the  discussions  at  the  fifth 
Solvay  conference,  in  an  attempt  to  understand  the  rapid  acceptance 
of  the  'Copenhagen'  interpretation.  It  has  also  been  suggested  that 
were  it  not  for  certain  historical  accidents,  de  Broglie's  theory  might 
have  triumphed  in  1927  and  emerged  as  the  dominant  interpretation  of 
quantum  theory  (Cushing  1994,  chapter  10).  It  is  difficult  to  evaluate 
how  realistic  Cushing's  'alternative  historical  scenario'  might  have  been. 
Here,  we  shall  simply  highlight  two  points  that  are  usually  overlooked, 
and  which  are  relevant  to  any  evaluation  of  why  de  Broglie's  theory  did 
not  carry  the  day. 

Our  first  point  is  that,  because  de  Broglie  did  in  fact  give  a  reply  to 
Pauli's  criticism  that  contained  the  essence  of  a  correct  rebuttal  —  and 
because  in  contrast  de  Broglie  completely  failed  to  reply  to  the  difficulty 
raised  by  Kramers  —  the  question  of  whether  or  not  de  Broglie  made 
a  convincing  case  at  the  fifth  Solvay  conference  (and  if  not,  why  not) 
should  be  reconsidered. 

Our  second  point  is  that  there  was  a  good  technical  reason  for  why 

a  Nowadays,  it  is  common  in  textbooks  to  motivate  the  free-particle  Schrodinger 
equation  as  the  simplest  equation  satisfied  by  a  plane  de  Broglie  wave  e*(k  x-^*) 
with  the  nonrelativistic  dispersion  relation  fko  =  (hk)2 /2m.  This  'derivation'  is 
just  as  natural  in  pilot-wave  theory  as  it  is  in  standard  quantum  theory. 


11.2  Einstein's  alternative  pilot-wave  theory  259 

'standard'  quantum  theory  had  an  advantage  over  pilot-wave  theory  in 
1927.  By  the  use  of  a  simple  'collapse  postulate'  for  microsystems,  it  was 
generally  possible  to  account  for  quantum  measurement  outcomes  wi- 
thout having  to  treat  the  measurement  process  (including  the  apparatus) 
quantum-mechanically.  In  contrast,  it  was  easy  to  find  examples  where 
in  pilot-wave  theory  it  was  essential  to  use  the  theory  itself  to  analyse  the 
measurement  process:  as  we  saw  in  the  last  section,  in  his  book  of  1930 
de  Broglie  could  not  see  how,  for  a  particle  guided  by  a  superposition 
of  energy  eigenfunctions,  an  energy  measurement  would  give  one  of  the 
results  expected  from  quantum  theory.  Agreement  with  quantum  theory 
requires  an  analysis  of  the  measurement  process  in  terms  of  pilot-wave 
dynamics,  with  the  apparatus  included  as  part  of  the  system,  as  shown 
by  Bohm  (1952b).  In  contrast,  in  ordinary  quantum  theory  it  usually 
suffices  in  practice  simply  to  apply  a  collapse  rule  to  the  microscopic 
system  alone.  Such  a  collapse  rule  is  of  course  merely  pragmatic,  and 
defies  precise  formulation  (there  being  no  sharp  boundary  between  'mi- 
croscopic' and  'macroscopic',  cf.  section l5~2|) :  yet,  in  ordinary  laboratory 
situations,  it  yields  predictions  that  may  be  compared  with  experiment. 

These  two  points  should  be  taken  into  account  in  any  full  evaluation 
of  why  de  Broglie's  theory  was  rejected  in  1927  and  shortly  thereafter. 

Further  relevant  material,  that  seems  to  have  never  been  considered 
before,  consists  of  comments  by  Heisenberg  on  the  possibility  of  a  de- 
terministic pilot-wave  interpretation.  These  comments  do  not  appear  in 
the  proceedings  of  the  fifth  Solvay  conference,  nor  are  they  directed  at 
de  Broglie's  theory.  Rather,  they  appear  in  a  letter  Heisenberg  wrote 
to  Einstein  a  few  months  earlier,  on  10  June  1927,  and  they  concern 
Einstein's  version  of  pilot-wave  theory.  Heisenberg's  remarks  could  just 
as  well  have  been  directed  at  de  Broglie's  theory,  however.  Both  Ein- 
stein's theory  and  Heisenberg's  comments  thereon  are  discussed  in  the 
next  section. 

11.3  Einstein's  alternative  pilot-wave  theory  (May  1927) 

As  we  saw  in  section  12.3.11  de  Broglie  first  arrived  at  pilot-wave  theory 
in  a  paper  published  in  Journal  de  Physique  in  May  1927  (de  Broglie 
1927b).  In  the  same  month,  Einstein  proposed  what  in  retrospect  ap- 
pears to  be  an  alternative  version  of  pilot-wave  theory,  with  particle  tra- 
jectories determined  by  the  many-body  wave  function  but  in  a  manner 
different  from  that  of  de  Broglie's  theory.  This  new  theory  was  described 
in  a  paper  entitled  'Does  Schrodinger's  wave  mechanics  determine  the 


260 


Pilot-wave  theory  in  retrospect 


motion  of  a  system  completely  or  only  in  the  sense  of  statistics?',  which 
was  presented  on  5  May  1927  at  a  meeting  of  the  Prussian  Academy  of 
Sciences.  On  the  same  day  Einstein  wrote  to  Ehrenfest  that  in  a  com- 
pletely unambiguous  way,  one  can  associate  definite  movements  with  the 
solutions  [of  the  Schrodinger  equation]'  (Howard  1990,  p.  89).  However, 
on  21  May,  before  the  paper  appeared  in  print,  Einstein  withdrew  it  from 
publication  (Kirsten  and  Treder  1979,  p.  135;  Pais  1982,  p.  444).  The 
paper  remained  unpublished,  but  its  contents  are  nevertheless  known 
from  a  manuscript  version  in  the  Einstein  archive  —  see  Howard  (1990, 


Einstein's  unpublished  version  of  pilot- wave  theory  has  some  relevance 
to  his  argument  for  the  incompleteness  of  quantum  theory,  given  in  the 
general  discussion.  As  we  saw  in  section  17.11  according  to  Einstein's 
argument,  locality  requires  'that  one  does  not  describe  the  [diffraction] 
process  solely  by  the  Schrodinger  wave,  but  that  at  the  same  time  one 
localises  the  particle  during  the  propagation'  (p.!487|l.  Einstein  added:  'I 
think  that  Mr  de  Broglie  is  right  to  search  in  this  direction'  —  without 
mentioning  that  he  himself  had  recently  made  an  attempt  in  the  same 
direction. 

It  quite  possible  that,  before  abandoning  his  version  of  pilot-wave 
theory,  Einstein  had  considered  presenting  it  at  the  fifth  Solvay  con- 
ference. Indeed,  had  Einstein  been  happy  with  his  new  theory,  there  is 
every  reason  to  think  he  would  have  presented  it  a  few  months  later  in 
Brussels.  As  discussed  in  section  [L~3l  Lorentz  had  asked  Einstein  to  give 
a  report  on  particle  statistics,  and  while  Einstein  had  agreed  to  do  so,  he 
was  reluctant.  Less  than  a  month  after  withdrawing  his  pilot-wave  paper, 
Einstein  withdrew  his  committment  to  speak  at  the  Solvay  conference, 
writing  to  Lorentz  on  17  June:       I  kept  hoping  to  be  able  to  contribute 

something  of  value  in  Brussels;  I  have  now  given  up  that  hope  I  did 

not  take  this  lightly  but  tried  with  all  my  strength  ....  '  (quoted  from 
Pais  1982,  p.  432).  It  then  seems  indeed  probable  that,  instead  of  (or 
in  addition  to)  speaking  about  particle  statistics,  Einstein  had  hoped  to 
present  something  like  his  version  of  pilot-wave  theory. 

Let  us  now  describe  what  Einstein's  proposal  was.  (For  more  detailed 
presentations,  see  Belousek  (1996)  and  Holland  (2005).) 

Einstein's  starting  point  is  the  time-independent  Schrodinger  equati- 

a  Archive  reference:  AEA  2-100.00  (in  German);  currently  available  on-line  at 
http://www.alberteinstein.info/db/ViewDetails.do?DocumentID=34338  . 


11.3  Einstein's  alternative  pilot-wave  theory  261 

or@ 

h2 

-yV2$  +  Vf  =  M  (4) 

for  a  many-body  system  with  potential  energy  V,  total  energy  E,  and 
wave  function  \&  on  an  n-dimensional  configuration  space.  Einstein  con- 
siders (@])  to  define  a  kinetic  energy 

fi2  V2* 

E-V=-—— —,  5 
2    *  w 

which  may  also  be  written  as 

E-V=±{da/dt)a  =  ±gia,tf>qr  ,  (6) 

where  ds2  =  giivdq>1dqv  is  the  line  element  in  configuration  space  and 
if  is  the  system  velocity.  The  theory  is  expressed  in  terms  of  arbi- 
trary coordinates  gM  with  metric  gM„.  The  Laplacian  is  then  given  by 
V2^'  =  .gA"/VAIV1y\f',  where  VM  is  the  covariant  derivative.  Einstein 
writes  VAlVl/\I/  as  (which  he  calls  the  'tensor  of  ^-curvature'),  and 
seeks  unit  vectors  that  extremise  ^S/^A^A",  leading  to  the  eigenvalue 
problem 

(IV  -  \gM*)Av  =  0  ,  (7) 

with  n  real  and  distinct  solutions  A(Q).  At  each  point,  the  A?-,  define 
a  local  orthogonal  coordinate  system  (with  Euclidean  metric  at  that 
point).  In  this  coordinate  system,  both  \&M„  and  gM„  are  diagonal,  with 
components  =  \(a)&ap  and  gap  =  Sap.  The  two  expressions  |(5])  and 
((6])  for  the  kinetic  energy  then  become 

E-V  =  -Y^*aa  (8) 

a 

and 

E-v=\YX  (9) 


a  The  particle  masses  make  no  explicit  appearance,  because  they  have  been  absorbed 
into  the  configuration-space  metric  .  Einstein  is  following  Schrodinger's  usage. 
In  his  second  paper  on  wave  mechanics,  Schrodinger  (1926c)  introduced  a 
non-Euclidean  metric  determined  by  the  kinetic  energy  (see  also  Schrodinger's 
report,  p.  144911.  The  Laplacian  V2  is  then  understood  in  the  Riemannian  sense, 
and  the  Schrodinger  equation  indeed  takes  the  form  J4j  with  no  masses  appearing 
explicitly.  Note  that  also  in  analytical  mechanics  it  is  sometimes  convenient  to 
write  the  kinetic  energy  ^M^vq^cf  as  ^(ds/dt)2  where  ds2  =  M M„ dq^ dq"  is  a 
line  element  with  metric  M^v  (Goldstein  1980,  pp.  369-70). 


262 


Pilot-wave  theory  in  retrospect 


respectively.  Einstein  then  introduces  the  hypothesis  that  these  two 
expressions  match  term  by  term,  so  that 


Using  fna  =  A(Q),  and  transforming  back  to  the  original  coordinate 
system,  where      =  J2a  9a^fQ)  >  Einstein  obtains  the  final  result 


which  expresses  gM  in  terms  of  A(Q)  and  where  at  each  point  in 

configuration  space  A(Q)  and  are  determined  by  the  local  values 

of  the  wave  function  ^>  and  its  derivatives.  (The  ambiguity  in  sign  is, 
according  to  Einstein,  to  be  expected  for  quasiperiodic  motions.) 

Thus,  according  to  lfTT|l.  the  system  velocity  is  locally  determined 
(up  to  signs)  by  \&  and  its  derivatives.  This  is  Einstein's  proposed  velocity 
law,  to  be  compared  and  contrasted  with  de  Broglie's. 

The  manuscript  contains  an  additional  note  'added  in  proof,  in  which 
Einstein  asserts  that  the  theory  he  has  just  outlined  is  physically  unac- 
ceptable, because  it  predicts  that  for  a  system  composed  of  two  inde- 
pendent subsystems,  with  an  additive  Hamiltonian  and  a  product  wave 
function,  the  velocities  for  one  subsystem  generally  depend  on  the  in- 
stantaneous coordinates  of  the  other  subsystem.  However,  Einstein  adds 
that  Grommer  has  pointed  out  that  this  problem  could  be  avoided  by 
replacing  "J"  with  In  <3>  in  the  construction  of  the  velocity  field.  According 
to  Einstein:  'The  elaboration  of  this  idea  should  occasion  no  difficulty 
(Howard  1990,  p.  90).  Despite  Einstein's  apparent  optimism  that 
Grommer's  modification  would  work,  it  has  been  assumed  (Howard  1990, 
p.  90;  Cushing  1994,  p.  128)  that  Einstein  withdrew  the  paper  because  he 
soon  realised  that  Grommer's  suggestion  did  not  work.  But  it  has  been 
shown  by  Holland  (2005)  that  the  replacement  \t  — *  ln^  does  in  fact 
remove  the  difficulty  raised  by  Einstein.  Holland  shows  further,  however, 
that  there  are  other  difficulties  with  Einstein's  theory  —  with  or  without 
Grommer's  modification.  It  is  not  known  if  Einstein  recognised  these 
other  difficulties,  but  if  he  did,  they  would  certainly  have  been  convincing 
grounds  on  which  to  abandon  the  scheme  altogether. 

The  difficulties  raised  by  Holland  are  as  follows.  First,  the  theory 
applies  only  to  a  limited  range  of  quantum  states:  real  stationary  states 
with  E  >  V.  Second,  the  system  velocity  gM  is  defined  only  in  a  limited 


-2 


(10) 


(11) 


a. 


11.3  Einstein's  alternative  pilot-wave  theory 


263 


domain  of  configuration  space  (for  example,  without  Grommer's  modi- 
fication, A(Q)/<I'  must  be  negative  for  gM  to  be  real).  Third,  even  where 
q^  is  defined,  the  continuity  equation  VM(|^|  (p)  =  0  is  generally  not 
satisfied  (where  |W| 2  is  time-independent  for  a  stationary  state),  so  that 
the  velocity  field  q^  does  not  map  an  initial  Born-rule  distribution  into  a 
final  Born-rule  distribution.  This  last  feature  removes  any  realistic  hope 
that  the  theory  could  reproduce  the  predictions  of  standard  quantum 
theory  (Holland  2005)0 

At  the  end  of  his  manuscript  (before  the  note  added  in  proof) ,  Einstein 
writes:  the  assignment  of  completely  determined  motions  to  solutions 
of  Schrodinger's  differential  equation  is  ....  just  as  possible  as  is  the 
assignment  of  determined  motions  to  solutions  of  the  Hamilton- Jacobi 
differential  equation  in  classical  mechanics'  (Belousek  1996,  pp.  441- 
2).  Given  the  close  relationship  between  the  Hamilton- Jacobi  function 
and  the  phase  S  of  \&  (the  latter  reducing  to  the  former  in  the  short- 
wavelength  limit),  it  is  natural  to  ask  why  Einstein  did  not  consider 
de  Broglie's  velocity  field  —  proportional  to  the  phase  gradient  VS  — 
which  is  a  straightforward  generalisation  of  the  Hamilton- Jacobi  velocity 
formula.  As  well  as  being  much  simpler  than  Einstein's,  de  Broglie's 
velocity  field  immediately  satisfies  Einstein's  desired  separability  of  par- 
ticle motions  for  product  states@  Why  did  Einstein  instead  propose 
what  seems  a  much  more  complicated  and  unwieldy  scheme  to  generate 
particle  velocities  from  the  wave  function? 

Perhaps  Einstein  did  not  adopt  de  Broglie's  velocity  field  simply  be- 
cause, for  the  real  wave  functions  Einstein  considered,  the  phase  gradient 
ViS  =  fiIm(V15/\fr)  vanishes;  though  it  is  not  clear  why  Einstein  thought 
one  could  restrict  attention  to  such  wave  functions.  As  for  the  seemingly 
peculiar  construction  that  Einstein  did  adopt,  it  should  be  noted  that 
Einstein  was  (as  he  himself  states)  following  Schrodinger  in  his  use  of 
a  non-Euclidean  metric  determined  by  the  kinetic  energy  (Schrodinger 
1926c).  Further  details  of  Einstein's  construction  may  have  been  related 
to  another  idea  Einstein  was  pursuing:  that  quantisation  conditions 
could  arise  from  a  generally-covariant  and  'overdetermined'  field  theory 

a  As  Holland  (2005)  also  points  out,  from  a  modern  point  of  view  the  mutual 
dependence  of  particle  motions  for  product  states,  which  Einstein  found  so 
unacceptable,  need  not  be  a  real  difficulty.  We  now  know  that  a  hidden-variables 
theory  must  be  nonlocal,  and  there  is  no  reason  why  in  some  theories  the 
underlying  nonlocality  could  not  exist  for  factorisable  quantum  states  as  well  as 
for  entangled  ones.  Indeed,  Holland  gives  an  example  of  just  such  a  theory. 

a  It  is  not  known  whether  or  not  Einstein  noticed  the  nonlocality  of  de  Broglie's 
theory  for  entangled  wave  functions. 


264 


Pilot-wave  theory  in  retrospect 


that  constrains  initial  states,  with  particles  represented  by  singularities 
(Pais  1982,  pp.  464-8),  an  idea  that,  in  retrospect,  seems  somewhat 
reminiscent  of  de  Broglie's  double-solution  theory  ( section [2.3. ip. 

It  would  of  course  have  been  most  interesting  to  see  how  physicists 
would  have  reacted  had  Einstein  in  fact  published  his  paper  or  presented 
it  at  the  fifth  Solvay  conference.  It  so  happens  that  Heisenberg  had  heard 
about  Einstein's  theory  through  Born  and  Jordan,  and  —  on  19  May, 
just  two  days  before  Einstein  withdrew  the  paper  —  wrote  to  Einstein 
asking  about  it.  On  10  June  1927,  Heisenberg  wrote  to  Einstein  again, 
this  time  with  detailed  comments  and  arguments  against  what  Einstein 
was  (or  had  been)  proposing^ 

At  the  beginning  of  this  letter,  after  thanking  Einstein  for  his  'friendly 
letter',  Heisenberg  says  he  would  like  to  explain  why  he  believes  inde- 
terminism  is  necessary  and  not  just  possible.  He  characterises  Einstein 
as  thinking  that,  while  all  experiments  will  agree  with  the  statistical 
quantum  theory,  nevertheless  it  will  be  possible  to  talk  about  definite 
particle  trajectories.  Heisenberg  then  outlines  an  objection.  He  considers 
free  electrons  with  a  constant  and  very  low  velocity  —  hence  large  de 
Broglie  wavelength  A  —  striking  a  grating  with  spacing  comparable  to 
A.  He  remarks  that,  in  Einstein's  theory,  the  electrons  will  be  scattered 
in  discrete  spatial  directions,  and  that  if  the  initial  position  of  a  particle 
were  known  one  could  calculate  where  the  particle  will  hit  the  grating. 
Heisenberg  then  asserts  that  one  could  set  up  an  obstacle  at  that  point, 
so  as  to  deflect  the  particle  in  an  arbitrary  direction,  independently 
of  the  rest  of  the  grating.  Heisenberg  says  that  this  could  be  done, 
if  the  forces  between  the  particle  and  the  obstacle  act  only  at  short 
range  (over  distances  much  smaller  than  the  spacing  of  the  grating). 
Heisenberg  then  adds  that,  in  actual  fact,  the  electron  will  be  scattered 
in  the  usual  discrete  directions  regardless  of  the  obstacle.  Heisenberg 
goes  on  to  say  that  one  could  escape  this  conclusion  if  one  'sets  the 
motion  of  the  particle  again  in  direct  relation  to  the  behaviour  of  the 
waves'.  But  this  means,  says  Heisenberg,  that  the  size  of  the  particle 
—  or  the  range  of  its  interaction  —  depends  on  its  velocity.  Heisenberg 
asserts  that  making  such  assumptions  actually  amounts  to  giving  up 
the  word  'particle'  and  leads  to  a  loss  in  understanding  of  why  the 
simple  potential  energy  e2/r  appears  in  the  Schrodinger  equation  or 
in  the  matrix  Hamiltonian  function.  On  the  other  hand,  Heisenberg 
agrees  that:  'If  you  use  the  word  "particle"  so  liberally,  I  consider  it 

a  Heisenberg  to  Einstein,  19  May  and  10  June  1927,  AEA  12-173.00  and  12-174.00 
(both  in  German). 


11.4  Objections:  in  1927  and  today 


265 


as  very  well  possible  that  one  can  again  also  define  particle  trajectories'. 
But  then,  adds  Heisenberg,  one  loses  the  simplicity  of  quantum  theory, 
according  to  which  the  particle  motion  takes  place  classically  (to  the 
extent  that  one  can  speak  about  motion  in  quantum  theory) .  Heisenberg 
notes  that  Einstein  seems  willing  to  sacrifice  this  simplicity  for  the  sake  of 
maintaining  causality.  He  remarks  further  that,  in  Einstein's  conception, 
many  experiments  are  still  determined  only  statistically,  and  'we  could 
only  console  ourselves  with  the  fact  that,  while  for  us  the  principle  of 
causality  is  meaningless,  because  of  the  uncertainty  relation  p\q\  ~  h, 
however  the  dear  God  knows  in  addition  the  position  of  the  particle  and 
thereby  keeps  the  validity  of  the  causal  law'.  Heisenberg  adds  that  he 
finds  it  unattractive  to  try  to  describe  more  than  just  the  'connection 
between  experiments'  [Zusammenhang  der  Experimente]. 

It  is  likely  that  Heisenberg  had  similar  views  of  de  Broglie's  theory, 
and  that  if  he  had  commented  on  de  Broglie's  theory  at  the  fifth  Solvay 
conference  he  would  have  said  things  similar  to  the  above. 

Heisenberg's  objection  concerning  the  electron  and  the  grating  seems 
to  be  based  on  inappropriate  reasoning  taken  from  classical  physics  (a 
common  feature  of  objections  to  pilot- wave  theory  even  today),  and 
Heisenberg  agrees  that  if  the  motion  of  the  particle  is  strictly  tied  to 
that  of  the  waves,  then  it  should  be  possible  to  obtain  consistency  with 
observation  (as  we  now  know  is  indeed  the  case  for  de  Broglie's  theory). 
Even  so,  Heisenberg  seems  to  think  that  such  a  highly  nonclassical 
particle  dynamics  would  lack  the  simplicity  and  intelligibility  of  certain 
classical  ideas  that  quantum  theory  preserves.  Finally,  Heisenberg  is  un- 
happy with  a  theory  containing  unobservable  causal  connections.  Similar 
objections  to  pilot-wave  theory  are  considered  in  the  next  section. 

11.4  Objections:  in  1927  and  today 

It  is  interesting  to  observe  that  many  of  the  objections  to  pilot-wave 
theory  that  are  commonly  heard  today  were  already  voiced  in  1927. 

Regarding  the  existence  or  non-existence  of  de  Broglie's  trajectories, 
Brillouin  —  in  the  discussion  following  de  Broglie's  lecture  (p.  I399|l  — 
could  just  as  well  have  been  replying  to  a  present-day  critic  of  de  Broglie- 
Bohm  theory  when  he  said  that: 

Mr  Born  can  doubt  the  real  existence  of  the  trajectories  calculated  by  L.  de 
Broglie,  and  assert  that  one  will  never  be  able  to  observe  them,  but  he  cannot 
prove  to  us  that  these  trajectories  do  not  exist.  There  is  no  contradiction 
between  the  point  of  view  of  L.  de  Broglie  and  that  of  other  authors  


266 


Pilot-wave  theory  in  retrospect 


Here  we  have  a  conflict  between  those  who  believe  in  hidden  entities 
because  of  the  explanatory  role  they  play,  and  those  who  think  that 
what  cannot  be  observed  in  detail  should  play  no  theoretical  role.  Such 
conflicts  are  not  uncommon  in  the  history  of  science:  for  example,  a 
similar  polarisation  of  views  occurred  in  the  late  nineteenth  century 
regarding  the  reality  of  atoms  (which  the  'energeticists'  regarded  as 
metaphysical  fictions). 

The  debate  over  the  reality  of  the  trajectories  postulated  by  de  Broglie 
has  been  sharpened  in  recent  years  by  the  recognition  that,  from  the 
perspective  of  pilot-wave  theory  itself,  our  inability  to  observe  those 
trajectories  is  not  a  fundamental  constraint  built  into  the  theory,  but 
rather  an  accident  of  initial  conditions  with  a  Born-rule  probability 
distribution  P  =  \^\2  (for  an  ensemble  of  systems  with  wave  function  <3>). 
The  statistical  noise  associated  with  such  'quantum  equilibrium'  distri- 
butions sets  limits  to  what  can  be  measured,  but  for  more  general  'none- 
quilibrium'  distributions  P  ^  \^\2,  the  uncertainty  principle  is  violated 
and  observation  of  the  trajectories  becomes  possible  (Valentini  1991b, 
1992,  2002b;  Pearle  and  Valentini  2006).  Such  nonequilibrium  entails,  of 
course,  a  departure  from  the  statistical  predictions  of  quantum  theory, 
which  are  obtained  in  pilot-wave  theory  only  as  a  special  'equilibrium' 
case.  Arguably,  the  above  disagreement  between  Born  and  Brillouin 
might  nowadays  turn  on  the  question  of  whether  one  is  willing  to  believe 
that  quantum  physics  is  merely  the  physics  of  a  special  statistical  state. 

Another  objection  sometimes  heard  today  is  that  a  velocity  law  dif- 
ferent from  that  assumed  by  de  Broglie  is  equally  possible.  In  the  dis- 
cussion following  de  Broglie's  lecture,  Schrodinger  (p.  1400)1  raised  the 
possibility  of  an  alternative  particle  velocity  defined  by  the  momentum 
density  of  a  field.  Pauli  pointed  out  that,  for  a  relativistic  field,  if  the 
particle  velocity  were  obtained  by  dividing  the  momentum  density  by 
the  energy  density,  then  the  resulting  trajectories  would  differ  from  those 
obtained  by  de  Broglie,  who  assumed  a  velocity  defined  (in  the  case  of  a 
single  particle)  by  the  ratio  of  current  density  to  charge  density.  Possibly, 
then  as  now,  the  existence  of  alternative  velocities  may  have  been  inter- 
preted as  casting  doubt  on  the  reality  of  the  velocities  actually  assumed 
by  de  Broglie  (though  the  true  velocities  would  become  measurable  in 
the  presence  of  quantum  nonequilibrium) . 

In  addition  to  the  criticism  that  the  trajectories  cannot  be  observed, 
today  it  is  also  often  objected  that  the  trajectories  are  rather  strange 
from  a  classical  perspective.  The  peculiar  nature  of  de  Broglie's  tra- 
jectories was  addressed  in  the  discussion  following  de  Broglie's  lecture 


11.4  Objections:  in  1927  and  today 


267 


(pp.l401lff,).  and  again  in  the  general  discussion  fpp.l498[l507lf.).  It  was, 
for  example,  pointed  out  that  the  speed  of  an  electron  could  be  zero  in 
a  stationary  state,  and  that  for  general  atomic  states  the  orbits  would 
be  very  complicated.  At  the  end  of  his  discussion  of  photon  reflection 
by  a  mirror,  Brillouin  (p.  1403)1  argued  that  de  Broglie's  non-rectilinear 
photon  paths  (in  free  space)  were  necessary  in  order  to  avoid  a  paradox 
posed  by  Lewis,  in  which  in  the  presence  of  interference  it  appeared  that 
photons  would  collide  with  only  one  end  of  a  mirror,  causing  it  to  rotate, 
even  though  from  classical  electrodynamics  the  mean  radiation  pressure 
on  the  mirror  is  expected  to  be  uniform  (see  Brillouin's  Fig.  3). 

This  last  example  of  Brillouin's  recalls  present-day  debates  involving 
certain  kinds  of  quantum  measurements,  in  which  the  trajectories  pre- 
dicted by  pilot-wave  theory  have  counter-intuitive  features  that  some 
authors  have  labelled  'surreal'  (Englert  et  al.  1992,  Aharonov  and  Vaid- 
man  1996),  while  other  authors  regard  these  features  as  perfectly  un- 
derstandable from  within  pilot-wave  theory  itself  (Valentini  1992,  p.  24, 
Dewdney,  Hardy  and  Squires  1993,  Diirr  et  al.  1993).  A  key  question  here 
is  whether  it  is  reasonable  to  expect  a  theory  of  subquantum  dynamics 
to  conform  to  classical  intuitions  about  measurement  (given  that  it  is  the 
underlying  dynamics  that  should  be  used  to  analyse  the  measurement 
process). 

Pilot-wave  theory  is  sometimes  seen  as  a  return  to  classical  phy- 
sics (welcomed  by  some,  criticised  by  others).  But  in  fact,  de  Broglie's 
velocity-based  dynamics  is  a  new  form  of  dynamics  that  is  simply  quite 
distinct  from  classical  theory;  therefore,  it  is  to  be  expected  that  the 
behaviour  of  the  trajectories  will  not  conform  to  classical  expectations. 
As  we  saw  in  detail  in  chapter  [2j  de  Broglie  did  indeed  originally  regard 
his  theory  as  a  radical  departure  from  the  principles  of  classical  dyna- 
mics. It  was  Bohm's  later  revival  of  de  Broglie's  theory,  in  an  unnatural 
pseudo-Newtonian  form,  that  led  to  the  widespread  and  mistaken  per- 
ception that  de  Broglie-Bohm  theory  constituted  a  return  to  classical 
physics.  In  more  recent  years,  de  Broglie's  original  pilot-wave  dynamics 
has  again  become  recognised  as  a  new  form  of  dynamics  in  its  own  right 
(Diirr,  Goldstein  and  Zanghi  1992,  Valentini  1992). 


12 

Beyond  the  Bohr-Einstein  debate 


The  fifth  Solvay  conference  is  usually  remembered  for  the  clash  that  took 
place  between  Bohr  and  Einstein,  supposedly  concerning  in  particular 
the  possibility  of  breaking  the  uncertainty  relations.  It  might  be  assumed 
that  this  clash  took  the  form  of  an  official  debate  that  was  the  centrepiece 
of  the  conference.  However,  no  record  of  any  such  debate  appears  in 
the  published  proceedings,  where  both  Bohr  and  Einstein  are  in  fact 
relatively  silent. 

The  available  evidence  shows  that  in  1927  the  famous  exchanges  bet- 
ween Bohr  and  Einstein  actually  consisted  of  informal  discussions,  which 
took  place  semi-privately  (mainly  over  breakfast  and  dinner) ,  and  which 
were  overheard  by  just  a  few  of  the  participants,  in  particular  Heisenberg 
and  Ehrenfest.  The  historical  sources  for  this  consist,  in  fact,  entirely 
of  accounts  given  by  Bohr,  Heisenberg  and  Ehrenfest.  These  accounts 
essentially  ignore  the  extensive  formal  discussions  appearing  in  the  pu- 
blished proceedings. 

As  a  result  of  relying  on  these  sources,  the  perception  of  the  conference 
by  posterity  has  been  skewed  on  two  counts.  First,  at  the  fifth  Solvay  con- 
ference there  occurred  much  more  that  was  memorable  and  important 
besides  the  Bohr-Einstein  clash.  Second,  as  shown  in  detail  by  Howard 
(1990),  the  real  nature  of  Einstein's  objections  was  in  fact  misunderstood 
by  Bohr,  Heisenberg  and  Ehrenfest:  for  Einstein's  main  target  was  not 
the  uncertainty  relations,  but  what  he  saw  as  the  nonseparability  of 
quantum  theory. 

Below  we  shall  indicate  how  these  misunderstandings  arose,  summa- 
rise what  now  appear  to  have  been  Einstein's  true  concerns,  and  end 
by  urging  physicists,  philosophers  and  historians  to  reconsider  what 
actually  took  place  in  Brussels  in  October  1927,  bearing  in  mind  the  deep 
questions  that  we  still  face  concerning  the  nature  of  quantum  physics. 


268 


12.1  The  standard  historical  account 


269 


12.1  The  standard  historical  account 

According  to  Heisenberg,  the  discussions  that  took  place  at  the  fifth 
Solvay  conference  'contributed  extraordinarily  to  the  clarification  of  the 
physical  foundations  of  the  quantum  theory'  and  indeed  led  to  'the 
outward  completion  of  the  quantum  theory,  which  now  can  be  applied 
without  worries  as  a  theory  closed  in  itself  (Heisenberg  1929,  p.  495). 
For  Heisenberg,  and  perhaps  for  others  in  the  Copenhagen-Gottingen 
camp,  the  1927  conference  seems  to  have  played  a  key  role  in  finalising 
the  interpretation  of  the  theory. 

However,  the  perception  that  the  interpretation  had  been  finalised 
proved  to  be  mistaken.  As  we  have  shown  at  length  in  chapter  \E[  the 
interpretation  of  quantum  theory  is  today  still  an  open  question,  and 
deep  concerns  as  to  its  meaning  have  stubbornly  persisted.  Further,  as  we 
have  seen  throughout  part  II  of  this  book,  many  of  today's  fundamental 
concerns  were  voiced  (often  at  considerable  length)  at  the  fifth  Solvay 
conference.  Given  that  these  concerns  are  still  very  much  alive,  it  has 
evidently  been  a  mistake  to  allow  recollections  of  private  discussions 
between  Bohr  and  Einstein  to  overshadow  our  historical  memory  of  the 
rest  of  the  conference. 

Note  that,  as  we  saw  in  chapter[l](p.[l6]),  while  Mehra  (1975,  p.  152) 
and  also  Mehra  and  Rechenberg  (2000,  p.  246)  state  that  the  general 
discussion  was  a  discussion  following  'Bohr's  report',  in  fact  Bohr  did 
not  present  a  report  at  the  conference,  nor  was  he  invited  to  give  one. 
This  misunderstanding  seems  to  have  arisen  because,  at  Bohr's  request, 
a  translation  of  his  Como  lecture  appears  in  the  published  proceedings, 
to  replace  his  remarks  in  the  general  discussion;  and  this  has  no  doubt 
contributed  to  the  common  view  that  Bohr  played  a  central  role  at 
the  conference,  when  in  fact  it  is  clear  from  the  proceedings  that  at 
the  official  meetings  both  he  and  Einstein  played  a  rather  marginal 
roleQ  Further,  it  seems  rather  clear  that  the  standard  (and  unbalanced) 
version  of  events  was  propagated  in  particular  by  Bohr  and  Heisenberg, 
especially  through  their  writings  decades  later. 

There  is  very  little  independent  evidence  from  the  time  as  to  what 
was  said  between  Bohr  and  Einstein.  Thus,  for  example,  Mehra  and 
Rechenberg  (2000,  p.  251)  note  the  'little  evidence  of  the  Bohr-Einstein 
debate  in  the  official  conference  documents',  and  rely  on  eyewitness 
reports  by  Ehrenfest,  Heisenberg  and  Bohr  to  yield  'a  fairly  consistent 

a  Since  Bohr  had  not  been  invited  to  give  a  report,  one  might  also  question  the 
propriety  of  his  request  that  his  remarks  in  the  general  discussion  be  replaced  by 
a  translation  of  a  rather  lengthy  paper  he  was  already  publishing  elsewhere. 


270 


Beyond  the  Bohr-Einstein  debate 


historical  picture  of  the  great  epistemological  debate  between  Bohr  and 
Einstein'  (p.  256). 

One  frequently-cited  piece  of  contemporary  evidence  is  a  description 
of  the  conference  written  by  Ehrenfest  a  few  days  later,  in  a  letter  to 
his  students  and  associates  in  Leiden.  This  letter  is  cited  at  length  by 
Mehra  and  Rechenberg  (2000,  pp.  251-3).  An  extract  reads: 

Bohr  towering  completely  over  everybody  step  by  step  defeating  everybody. 

....  It  was  delightful  for  me  to  be  present  during  the  conversations  between  Bohr 

and  Einstein  Einstein  all  the  time  with  new  examples.  In  a  certain  sense 

a  sort  of  Perpetuum  Mobile  of  the  second  kind  to  break  the  UNCERTAINTY 
RELATION.  Bohr  ....  constantly  searching  for  the  tools  to  crush  one  example 

after  the  other.  Einstein  ....  jumping  out  fresh  every  morning        I  am  almost 

without  reservation  pro  Bohr  and  contra  Einstein. 

This  letter  has  often  been  taken  as  representative  of  the  conference. 
However,  there  is  a  marked  contrast  with  the  published  proceedings  (in 
which  Bohr  and  Einstein  are  mostly  silent),  a  contrast  which  has  not 
been  taken  into  account  @ 

After  examining  the  published  proceedings,  Mehra  and  Rechenberg 
(2000,  pp.  250-56)  go  on  to  consider  at  greater  length  recollections 
by  Heisenberg  and  Bohr  —  written  decades  after  the  conference  — 
concerning  the  discussions  between  Bohr  and  Einstein.  With  hindsight, 
again  given  that  the  interpretation  of  quantum  theory  is  today  an  open 
question,  it  would  be  desirable  to  have  a  more  balanced  view  of  the 
conference,  focussing  more  on  the  content  of  the  published  proceedings, 
and  rather  less  on  these  later  recollections  by  just  two  of  the  participants. 

Here  is  an  extract  from  Heisenberg's  recollection,  written  some  40 
years  later  (Heisenberg  1967,  p.  107): 

The  discussions  were  soon  focussed  upon  a  duel  between  Einstein  and  Bohr  

We  generally  met  already  at  breakfast  in  the  hotel,  and  Einstein  began  to 
describe  an  ideal  experiment  in  which  he  thought  the  inner  contradictions  of 
the  Copenhagen  interpretation  were  especially  clearly  visible.  Einstein,  Bohr 
and  I  walked  together  from  the  hotel  to  the  conference  building,  and  I  listened 
to  the  lively  discussion  between  those  two  people  whose  philosophical  attitudes 
were  so  different,  ....  at  lunch  time  the  discussions  continued  between  Bohr  and 
the  others  from  Copenhagen.  Bohr  had  usually  finished  the  complete  analysis 
of  the  ideal  experiment  by  late  afternoon  and  would  show  it  to  Einstein  at  the 
supper  table.  Einstein  had  no  good  objection  to  this  analysis,  but  in  his  heart 
he  was  not  convinced. 

a  We  have  attempted  to  compare  Ehrenfest 's  contemporary  account  with  that  in 
letters  written  by  other  participants  soon  after  the  conference,  but  have  found 
nothing  significant. 


12.1  The  standard  historical  account 


271 


From  this  account,  the  Bohr-Einstein  clash  appears  indeed  to  have  been 
a  private  discussion,  with  a  few  of  Bohr's  close  associates  in  attendance. 
And  yet,  there  has  been  a  marked  tendency  to  portray  this  discussion  as 
the  centrepiece  of  the  whole  conference.  Thus,  for  example,  in  the  preface 
to  Mehra's  book  The  Solvay  Conferences  on  Physics,  Heisenberg  wrote 
the  following  about  the  1927  conference  (Mehra  1975,  pp.  v-vi): 

Therefore  the  discussions  at  the  1927  Solvay  Conference,  from  the  very  begin- 
ning, centred  around  the  paradoxa  of  quantum  theory  Einstein  therefore 

suggested  special  experimental  arrangements  for  which,  in  his  opinion,  the 
uncertainty  relations  could  be  evaded.  But  the  analysis  carried  out  by  Bohr 
and  others  during  the  Conference  revealed  errors  in  Einstein's  arguments.  In 
this  situation,  by  means  of  intensive  discussions,  the  Conference  contributed 
directly  to  the  clarification  of  the  quantum-theoretical  paradoxa. 

Heisenberg  says  nothing  at  all  about  the  alternative  theories  of  de  Broglie 
and  Schrodinger,  or  about  the  views  of  Lorentz  or  Dirac  (for  example), 
or  about  the  other  extensive  discussions  recorded  in  the  proceedings. 

As  for  the  text  of  Mehra's  book  on  the  Solvay  conferences,  the  chap- 
ter devoted  to  the  fifth  Solvay  conference  contains  a  summary  of  the 
general  discussion,  which  says  nothing  about  the  published  discussions 
beyond  providing  a  list  of  the  participants.  Mehra's  summary  states 
that  a  debate  took  place  between  Bohr  and  Einstein,  and  that  the 
famous  Bohr-Einstein  dialogue  began  here  in  1927.  Mehra  then  adds  an 
appendix,  reproducing  Bohr's  famous  essay  'Discussion  with  Einstein  on 
epistemological  problems  in  atomic  physics'  (Bohr  1949),  written  more 
than  20  years  after  the  conference  took  place.  Once  again,  the  published 
discussions  are  made  to  appear  rather  insignificant  compared  to  (Bohr's 
recollection  of)  the  informal  discussions  between  Bohr  and  Einstein. 

The  above  essay  by  Bohr  is  in  fact  the  principal  and  most  detailed 
historical  source  for  the  Bohr-Einstein  debate.  This  essay  was  Bohr's 
contribution  to  the  1949  festschrift  for  Einstein's  seventieth  birthday. 
It  is  reprinted  as  the  very  first  paper  in  Wheeler  and  Zurek's  (1983) 
influential  collection  Quantum  Theory  and  Measurement,  as  well  as  else- 
where. It  gives  a  detailed  account  of  Bohr's  discussions  with  Einstein  at 
the  fifth  Solvay  conference  (as  well  as  at  the  sixth  Solvay  conference  of 
1930).  According  to  Bohr,  the  discussions  in  1927  centred  around,  among 
other  things,  a  version  of  the  double-slit  experiment,  in  which  according 
to  Einstein  it  was  possible  to  observe  interference  while  at  the  same  time 
deducing  which  path  the  particle  had  taken,  a  claim  conclusively  refuted 
by  Bohr. 

Were  Bohr's  recollections  accurate?  Jammer  certainly  thought  so: 


272 


Beyond  the  Bohr-Einstein  debate 


Bohr's  masterly  report  of  his  discussions  with  Einstein  on  this  issue,  though 
written  more  than  20  years  after  they  had  taken  place,  is  undoubtedly  a  reliable 
source  for  the  history  of  this  episode.  (Jammer  1974,  p.  120) 

Though  as  Jammer  himself  adds  (p.  120):  'It  is,  however,  most  deplorable 
that  additional  documentary  material  on  the  Bohr-Einstein  debate  is 
extremely  scanty'. 

We  now  know  that,  as  we  shall  now  discuss,  Bohr's  recollection  of 
his  discussions  with  Einstein  did  not  properly  capture  Einstein's  true 
intentions,  essentially  because,  at  the  time,  no  one  understood  what 
Einstein's  principal  concern  was:  the  nonseparability  of  quantum  theory. 

12.2  Towards  a  historical  revision 

Separability  —  the  requirement  that  the  joint  state  of  a  composite  of 
spatially  separated  systems  should  be  determined  by  the  states  of  the 
component  parts  —  was  a  condition  basic  to  Einstein's  field-theoretic 
view  of  physics  (as  indeed  was  the  absence  of  action  at  a  distance) .  As 
already  mentioned  in  section  [972|  Howard  (1990)  has  shown  in  great  de- 
tail how  Einstein's  concerns  about  the  failure  of  separability  in  quantum 
theory  date  back  to  long  before  the  famous  EPR  paper  of  19350  There 
is  no  doubt  that,  by  1909,  Einstein  understood  that  if  light  quanta 
were  treated  like  the  spatially  independent  molecules  of  an  ideal  gas, 
then  the  resulting  fluctuations  were  inconsistent  with  Planck's  formula 
for  blackbody  radiation;  and  certainly,  in  1925,  Einstein  was  concerned 
that  Bose-Einstein  statistics  entailed  a  mysterious  interdependence  of 
photons.  Also  in  1925,  as  we  discussed  in  section  l9~2"l  Einstein's  theory 
of  guiding  fields  in  3-space  —  in  which  spatially  separated  systems  each 
had  their  own  guiding  wave,  in  accordance  with  Einstein's  separability 
criterion  —  conflicted  with  energy-momentum  conservation  for  single 
events.  Howard  (pp.  83-91)  argues  further  that,  in  spring  1927,  Einstein 
must  have  realised  that  Schrodinger's  wave  mechanics  in  configuration 
space  violated  separability,  because  a  general  solution  to  the  Schrodinger 
equation  for  a  composite  system  could  not  be  written  as  a  product 
over  the  componentsEI  In  other  words,  Einstein  objected  to  what  we 
would  now  call  entanglement,  and  concluded  that  the  wave  function  in 
configuration  space  could  not  represent  anything  physical. 

a  See  also  Fine  (1986,  chapter  3). 

b  Howard's  argument  here  is  somewhat  circumstantial,  appealing  in  part  to  the 
difficulty  with  separability  that  Einstein  had  with  his  own  hidden-variables 
amendment  of  wave  mechanics  (cf.  section  Hi .31. 


12.2  Towards  a  historical  revision 


273 


Einstein's  concerns  about  separability  continued  up  to  and  beyond 
the  fifth  Solvay  conference.  While  it  seems  that  Einstein  did  have  some 
early  doubts  about  the  validity  of  the  uncertainty  relations,  Howard's 
reconstruction  shows  that  Einstein's  main  concern  lay  elsewhere.  The 
primary  aim  of  the  famous  thought  experiments  that  Einstein  discussed 
with  Bohr,  in  1927  and  subsequently,  was  not  to  defeat  the  uncertainty 
relations  but  to  highlight  the  (for  him  disturbing)  feature  of  quantum 
theory,  that  spatially  separated  systems  cannot  be  treated  independent- 
ly. As  Howard  (p.  94)  puts  it,  regarding  the  1927  Solvay  conference: 

But  if  the  uncertainty  relations  really  were  the  main  sticking  point  for  Ein- 
stein, why  did  Einstein  not  say  so  in  the  published  version  of  his  remarks,  or 
anywhere  else  for  that  matter  in  correspondence  or  in  print  in  the  weeks  and 
months  following  the  Solvay  meeting? 

We  have  indeed  seen  in  chapter  [7|  that  Einstein's  criticism  in  the 
general  discussion  concerned  locality  and  completeness  (just  like  the 
later  EPR  argument),  not  the  uncertainty  relations.  Bohr,  in  his  reply, 
states  that  he  does  not  'understand  what  precisely  is  the  point'  Einstein 
is  making.  It  seems  rather  clear  that,  indeed,  in  1927  Bohr  did  not 
understand  Einstein's  point,  and  it  is  remarkable  that  what  is  most 
often  recalled  about  the  fifth  Solvay  conference  was  in  fact  largely  a 
misunderstanding. 

According  to  Bohr's  later  recollections  (Bohr  1949),  at  the  fifth  Solvay 
conference  Einstein  proposed  a  version  of  the  two-slit  experiment  in 
which  measurement  of  the  transverse  recoil  of  a  screen  with  a  single  slit 
would  enable  one  to  deduce  the  path  of  a  particle  through  a  second  screen 
with  two  slits,  while  at  the  same  time  observing  interference  on  the  far 
side  of  the  second  screen.  (Consideration  of  this  experiment  must  have 
taken  place  informally,  not  in  the  official  discussions.)  This  experiment 
has  been  analysed  in  detail  by  Wootters  and  Zurek  (1979),  who  show 
the  crucial  role  played  by  quantum  nonseparability  between  the  particle 
and  the  first  screen.  While  the  evidence  is  somewhat  sketchy  in  this 
particular  instance,  according  to  Howard  the  main  point  that  concerned 
Einstein  in  this  experiment  was  precisely  such  nonseparability. 

That  separability  was  indeed  Einstein's  central  concern  is  clearer  in 
the  later  'photon-box'  thought  experiment  he  discussed  with  Bohr  at  the 
sixth  Solvay  conference  of  1930,  involving  weighing  a  box  from  which  a 
photon  escapes.  Again,  Bohr  discusses  this  experiment  at  length  in  his 
recollections,  where  according  to  him  it  was  yet  another  of  Einstein's 
attempts  to  circumvent  the  uncertainty  relations.  Specifically,  according 


274 


Beyond  the  Bohr-Einstein  debate 


to  Bohr,  Einstein's  intention  was  to  beat  the  energy-time  uncertainty 
relation,  by  measuring  both  the  energy  of  the  emitted  photon  (by  weig- 
hing the  box  before  and  after)  and  its  time  of  emission  (given  by  a  clock 
controlling  the  shutter  releasing  the  photon).  On  Bohr's  account,  this 
attempt  failed,  ironically,  because  of  the  time  dilation  in  a  gravitational 
field  implied  by  Einstein's  own  general  theory  of  relativity. 

However,  it  seems  that  in  fact,  the  photon-box  experiment  was  (like 
Einstein's  published  objection  of  1927)  really  a  form  of  the  later  EPR 
argument  for  incompleteness.  This  is  shown  by  a  letter  Ehrenfest  wrote 
to  Bohr  on  9  July  1931,  just  after  Ehrenfest  had  visited  Einstein  in  Berlin 
(Howard  1990,  pp.  98-9).  Ehrenfest  reports  that  Einstein  said  he  did  not 
invent  the  photon-box  experiment  to  defeat  the  uncertainty  relations 
(which  he  had  for  a  long  time  no  longer  doubted),  but  'for  a  totally 
different  purpose'.  Ehrenfest  then  explains  that  Einstein's  real  intention 
was  to  construct  an  example  in  which  the  choice  of  measurement  at 
one  location  would  enable  an  experimenter  to  predict  either  one  or  the 
other  of  two  incompatible  quantities  for  a  system  that  was  far  away  at 
the  time  of  the  measurement.  In  the  example  at  hand,  if  the  escaped 
photon  is  reflected  back  towards  the  box  after  having  travelled  a  great 
distance,  then  the  time  of  its  return  may  be  predicted  with  certainty  if 
the  experimenter  checks  the  clock  reading  (while  the  photon  is  still  far 
away) ;  alternatively,  the  energy  (or  frequency)  of  the  returning  photon 
may  be  predicted  with  certainty  if,  instead,  the  experimenter  chooses 
to  weigh  the  box  (again  while  the  photon  is  still  far  away).  Because 
the  two  possible  operations  take  place  while  the  photon  is  at  a  great 
distance,  the  assumptions  of  separability  and  locality  imply  that  both 
the  time  and  energy  of  the  returning  photon  are  in  reality  determined 
in  advance  (even  if  in  practice  an  experimenter  cannot  carry  out  both 
predictions  simultaneously),  leading  to  the  conclusion  that  quantum 
theory  is  incomplete^ 

The  true  thrust  of  Einstein's  argument  was  not  appreciated  at  the 

a  The  reasoning  here  is  similar  to  that  in  Einstein's  own  (and  simpler)  version  of 
the  EPR  argument,  which  first  appears  in  a  letter  from  Einstein  to  Schrodinger  of 
19  June  1935,  one  month  after  the  EPR  paper  was  published  (Fine  1986,  chap.  3). 
The  argument  —  which  Einstein  repeated  and  refined  between  1936  and  1949  — 
runs  essentially  as  follows.  A  complete  theory  should  associate  one  and  only  one 
theoretical  state  with  each  real  state  of  a  system;  in  an  EPR-type  experiment 
on  correlated  systems,  depending  on  what  measurement  is  carried  out  at  one 
wing  of  the  experiment,  quantum  theory  associates  different  wave  functions  with 
what  must  (assuming  locality)  be  the  same  real  state  at  the  other  distant  wing. 
Therefore,  quantum  theory  is  incomplete.  For  a  detailed  discussion,  see  Howard 
(1990). 


12.2  Towards  a  historical  revision 


275 


time,  perhaps  because  Bohr  and  his  associates  tended  to  identify  the 
existence  of  physical  quantities  with  their  experimental  measurability:  if 
two  quantities  could  not  be  measured  simultaneously  in  the  same  expe- 
riment, they  did  not  exist  simultaneously  in  the  same  experiment.  With 
this  attitude  in  mind,  it  would  be  natural  to  mistake  Einstein's  claim  of 
simultaneous  existence  for  a  claim  of  simultaneous  measurability. 

We  feel  that  Howard's  reappraisal  of  the  Bohr-Einstein  debate,  as  well 
as  being  of  great  intrinsic  interest,  also  provides  an  instructive  example 
of  how  the  history  of  quantum  physics  should  be  reconsidered  in  the  light 
of  our  modern  understanding  of  quantum  theory  and  its  open  problems. 
There  was  certainly  much  more  to  the  fifth  Solvay  conference  than  the 
Bohr-Einstein  clash,  and  a  similar  reappraisal  of  other  crucial  encounters 
at  that  time  seems  overdue. 

If  the  history  of  quantum  theory  is  written  on  the  assumption  that 
Bohr,  Heisenberg  and  Born  were  right,  and  that  de  Broglie,  Schrodinger 
and  Einstein  were  wrong,  the  resulting  account  is  likely  to  be  unsatis- 
factory: opposing  views  will  tend  to  be  misunderstood  or  underestima- 
ted, supporting  views  over-emphasised,  and  valid  alternative  approaches 
ignored. 

A  reconsideration  of  the  fifth  Solvay  conference  certainly  entails  a 
re-evaluation  of  de  Broglie's  pilot-wave  theory  as  a  coherent  but  (until 
very  recently)  'forgotten'  formulation  of  quantum  theory.  Schrodinger's 
ideas,  too,  seem  more  plausible  today,  in  the  light  of  modern  collapse  mo- 
dels. One  should  also  reconsider  what  Born  and  Heisenberg's  'quantum 
mechanics'  really  was,  in  particular  as  concerns  the  role  of  time  and  the 
collapse  of  the  wave  function. 

There  is  no  longer  a  definitive,  widely-accepted  interpretation  of  quan- 
tum mechanics;  it  is  no  longer  clear  who  was  right  and  who  was  wrong 
in  October  1927.  Therefore,  it  seems  particularly  important  at  this  time 
to  return  to  the  historical  sources  and  re-evaluate  them.  We  hope  that 
physicists,  philosophers  and  historians  will  reconsider  the  significance 
of  the  fifth  Solvay  conference,  both  for  the  history  of  physics  and  for 
current  research  in  the  foundations  of  quantum  theory. 


Part  III 

The  proceedings  of  the  1927  Solvay 
conference 


H.  A.  Lorentz  f 


Hardly  a  few  months  have  gone  by  since  the  meeting  of  the  fifth  physics 
conference  in  Brussels,  and  now  I  must,  in  the  name  of  the  scientific 
committee,  recall  here  all  that  meant  to  the  Solvay  International  Insti- 
tute of  Physics  he  who  was  our  chairman  and  the  moving  spirit  of  our 
meetings.  The  illustrious  teacher  and  physicist,  H.  A.  Lorentz,  was  taken 
away  in  February  1928  by  a  sudden  illness,  when  we  had  just  admired, 
once  again,  his  magnificent  intellectual  gifts  which  age  was  unable  to 
diminish  in  the  least. 

Professor  Lorentz,  of  a  simple  and  modest  demeanour,  nevertheless 
enjoyed  an  exceptional  authority,  thanks  to  the  combination  of  rare 
qualities  in  a  harmonious  whole.  Theoretician  with  profound  views  — 
eminent  teacher  in  the  highest  forms  of  instruction  and  tirelessly  devoted 
to  this  task  —  fervent  advocate  of  all  international  scientific  collabora- 
tion —  he  found,  wherever  he  went,  a  grateful  circle  of  pupils,  disciples 
and  those  who  carried  on  his  work.  Ernest  Solvay  had  an  unfailing 
appreciation  of  this  moral  and  intellectual  force,  and  it  was  on  this 
that  he  relied  to  carry  through  a  plan  that  was  dear  to  him,  that  of 
serving  Science  by  organising  conferences  composed  of  a  limited  number 
of  physicists,  gathered  together  to  discuss  subjects  where  the  need  for 
new  insights  is  felt  with  particular  intensity.  Thus  was  born  the  Solvay 
International  Institute  of  Physics,  of  which  Ernest  Solvay  followed  the 
beginnings  with  a  touching  concern  and  to  which  Lorentz  devoted  a  loyal 
and  fruitful  activity. 

All  those  who  had  the  honour  to  be  his  collaborators  know  what  he 
was  as  chairman  of  these  conferences  and  of  the  preparatory  meetings. 
His  thorough  knowledge  of  physics  gave  him  an  overall  view  of  the 
problems  to  be  examined.  His  clear  judgement,  his  fair  and  benevolent 
spirit  guided  the  scientific  committee  in  the  choice  of  the  assistance  it 


279 


280 


H.  A.  Lorentz  f 


was  appropriate  to  call  upon.  When  we  then  were  gathered  together  at 
a  conference,  one  could  only  admire  without  reservations  the  mastery 
with  which  he  conducted  the  chairmanship.  His  shining  intellect  domi- 
nated the  discussion  and  followed  it  also  in  the  details,  stimulating  it 
or  preventing  it  from  drifting,  making  sure  that  all  opinions  could  be 
usefully  expressed,  bringing  out  the  final  conclusion  as  far  as  possible. 
His  perfect  knowledge  of  languages  allowed  him  to  interpret,  with  equal 
facility,  the  words  uttered  by  each  one.  Our  chairman  appeared  to  us, 
in  fact,  gifted  with  an  invincible  youth,  in  his  passion  for  scientific  truth 
and  in  the  joy  he  had  in  comparing  opinions,  sometimes  with  a  shrewd 
smile  on  his  face,  and  even  a  little  mischievousness  when  confronted 
with  an  unforeseen  aspect  of  the  question.  Respect  and  affection  went 
to  him  spontaneously,  creating  a  cordial  and  friendly  atmosphere,  which 
facilitated  the  common  work  and  increased  its  efficiency. 

True  creator  of  the  theoretical  edifice  that  explains  optical  and  elec- 
tromagnetic phenomena  by  the  exchange  of  energy  between  electrons 
contained  in  matter  and  radiation  viewed  in  accordance  with  Maxwell's 
theory,  Lorentz  retained  a  devotion  to  this  classical  theory.  All  the 
more  remarkable  is  the  flexibility  of  mind  with  which  he  followed  the 
disconcerting  evolution  of  the  quantum  theory  and  of  the  new  mechanics. 

The  impetus  that  he  gave  to  the  Solvay  institute  will  be  a  memory 
and  an  example  for  the  scientific  committee.  May  this  volume,  faithful 
report  of  the  work  of  the  recent  physics  conference,  be  a  tribute  to  the 
memory  of  he  who,  for  the  fifth  and  last  time,  honoured  the  conference 
by  his  presence  and  by  his  guidance. 


M.  Curie 


Fifth  physics  conference 


The  fifth  of  the  physics  conferences,  provided  for  by  article  10  of  the  sta- 
tutes of  the  international  institute  of  physics  founded  by  Ernest  Solvay, 
held  its  sessions  in  Brussels  on  the  premises  of  the  institute  from  24  to 
29  October  1927. 

The  following  took  part  in  the  conference: 

Mr  H.  A.  LORENTZ  f,  of  Haarlem,  Chairman. 

Mrs  P.  Curie,  of  Paris;  Messrs  N.  Bohr,  of  Copenhagen;  M.  Born, 
of  Gottingen;  W.  L.  Bragg,  of  Manchester;  L.  Brillouin,  of  Paris; 
A.  H.  Compton,  of  Chicago;  L.-V.  de  Broglie,  of  Paris;  P.  Debye, 
of  Leipzig;  P.  A.  M.  DlRAC,  of  Cambridge;  P.  Ehrenfest,  of  Leiden; 
A.  Einstein,  of  Berlin;  R.  H.  Fowler,  of  Cambridge;  Ch.-E.  Guye, 
of  Geneva;  W.  Heisenberg,  of  Copenhagen;  M.  Knudsen,  of  Copen- 
hagen; H.  A.  Kramers,  of  Utrecht;  P.  Langevin,  of  Paris;  W.  Pauli, 
of  Hamburg;  M.  Planck,  of  Berlin;  0.  W.  Richardson,  of  London; 
[E.  SCHRODINGER,  of  Zurich;]  C.  T.  R.  Wilson,  of  Cambridge,  Members. 

Mr  J.-E.  Verschaffelt,  of  Gent,  fulfilled  the  duties  of  Secretary. 

Messrs  Th.  De  Donder,  E.  Henriot  and  Aug.  Piccard,  professors 
at  the  University  of  Brussels,  attended  the  meetings  of  the  conference 
as  guests  of  the  scientific  committee,  Mr  Ed.  Herzen,  professor  at  the 
Ecole  des  Hautes  Etudes  de  Bruxelles,  as  representative  of  the  Solvay 
family. 


281 


282 


Fifth  physics  conference 


Professor  I.  Langmuir,  of  Schenectady  (U.  S.  of  America),  visiting 
Europe,  attended  the  meetings  as  a  guest. 

Mr  Edm.  van  Aubel,  member  of  the  Scientific  Committee,  and  Mr  H. 
Deslandres,  director  of  the  Meudon  observatory,  invited  to  participate 
in  the  conference  meetings,  had  been  excused. 

Sir  W.  H.  Bragg,  member  of  the  scientific  committee,  who  had  handed 
in  his  resignation  before  the  meetings  and  requested  to  be  excused,  also 
did  not  attend  the  sessions. 

The  administrative  commission  of  the  institute  was  composed  of: 

Messrs  Jules  Bordet,  professor  at  the  University  of  Brussels,  appointed 
by  H.  M.  the  King  of  the  Belgians;  Armand  Solvay,  engineer,  mana- 
ger of  Solvay  and  Co.;  Maurice  Bourquin,  professor  at  the  University 
of  Brussels;  Emile  Henriot,  professor  at  the  University  of  Brussels; 
Ch.  Lefebure,  engineer,  appointed  by  the  family  of  Mr  Ernest  Solvay, 
Administrative  Secretary. 

The  scientific  committee  was  composed  of: 

Messrs  H.  A.  LoRENTZf ,  professor  at  the  University  of  Leiden,  Chair- 
man; M.  Knudsen,  professor  at  the  University  of  Copenhagen,  Secreta- 
ry; W.  H.  Bragg,  professor  at  the  University  of  London,  president  of  the 
Royal  Institution;  Mrs  Pierre  Curie,  professor  at  the  Faculty  of  Sciences 
of  Paris;  Messrs  A.  EinsteinQ  professor,  in  Berlin;  Charles-Eug.  Guye, 
professor  at  the  University  of  Geneva;  P.  Langevin,  professor  at  the 
College  de  France,  in  Paris;  0.  W.  RICHARDSON,  professor  at  the  Uni- 
versity of  London;  Edm.  van  Aubel,  professor  at  the  University  of  Gent. 

Sir  W.  H.  Bragg,  resigning  member,  was  replaced  by  Mr  B.  Cabrera, 
professor  at  the  University  of  Madrid. 

To  replace  its  late  chairman,  the  scientific  committee  chose  Professor 
P.  Langevin. 


a  Chosen  in  replacement  of  Mr  H.  Kamerlingh  Onnes,  deceased. 


The  intensity  of  X-ray  reflection 


By  Mr  W.  L.  BRAGG 


1.  —  The  classical  treatment  of  x-ray  diffraction 
phenomena 

The  earliest  experiments  on  the  diffraction  of  X-rays  by  crystals  showed 
that  the  directions  in  which  the  rays  were  diffracted  were  governed  by  the 
classical  laws  of  optics.  Laue's  original  paper  on  the  diffraction  of  white1 
radiation  by  a  crystal,  and  the  work  which  my  father  and  I  initiated  on 
the  reflection  of  lines2  in  the  X-ray  spectrum,  were  alike  based  on  the 
laws  of  optics  which  hold  for  the  diffraction  grating.  The  high  accuracy 
which  has  been  developed  by  Siegbahn  and  others  in  the  realm  of  X-ray 
spectroscopy  is  the  best  evidence  of  the  truth  of  these  laws.  Advance  in 
accuracy  has  shown  the  necessity  of  taking  into  account  the  very  small 
refraction  of  X-rays  by  the  crystal,  but  this  refraction  is  also  determined 
by  the  classical  laws  and  provides  no  exception3  to  the  above  statement. 

The  first  attempts  at  crystal  analysis  showed  further  that  the  strength 
of  the  diffracted  beam  was  related  to  the  structure  of  the  crystal  in  a  way 
to  be  expected  by  the  optical  analogy.  This  has  been  the  basis  of  most 
work  on  the  analysis  of  crystal  structure.  When  monochromatic  X-rays 
are  reflected  from  a  set  of  crystal  planes,  the  orders  of  reflection  are 
strong,  weak,  or  absent  in  a  way  which  can  be  accounted  for  qualitatively 

a  We  follow  Bragg's  original  English  typescript,  from  the  copy  in  the  Richardson 
collection,  AHQP-RDN,  document  M-0059  (indexed  as  'unidentified  author'  in 
the  microfilmed  catalogue).  Obvious  typos  are  corrected  mostly  tacitly  and  some 
of  the  spelling  has  been  harmonised  with  that  used  in  the  rest  of  the  volume. 
Discrepancies  between  the  original  English  and  the  published  French  are  endnoted 
(eds.). 


283 


284  W.  L.  Bragg 

by  the  arrangement  of  atoms4  parallel  to  these  planes.  In  the  analysis 
of  many  structures,  it  is  not  necessary  to  make  a  strict  examination  of 
the  strength  of  the  diffracted  beams.  Slight  displacements  of  the  atoms 
cause  the  intensities  of  the  higher  orders  to  fluctuate  so  rapidly,  that 
it  is  possible  to  fix  the  atomic  positions  with  high  accuracy  by  using  a 
rough  estimate  of  the  relative  intensity  of  the  different  orders. 

When  we  attack  the  problem  of  developing  an  accurate  quantitative 
theory  of  intensity  of  diffraction,  many  difficulties  present  themselves. 
These  difficulties  are  so  great,  and  the  interpretation  of  the  experimental 
results  has  often  been  so  uncertain,  that  it  has  led5  to  a  natural  distrust 
of  deductions  drawn  from  intensity  measurements.  Investigators  of  cry- 
stal structures  have  relied  on  qualitative  methods,6  since  these  were  in 
many  cases  quite  adequate.  The  development  of  the  quantitative  analysis 
has  always  interested  me  personally,  particularly  as  a  means  of  attacking 
the  more  complicated  crystalline  structures,  and  it  would  seem  that  at 
the  present  time  the  technique  has  reached  a  stage  when  we  can  rely  on 
the  results.  It  is  my  purpose  in  this  paper  to  attempt  a  critical  survey 
of  the  present  development  of  the  subject.  It  is  of  considerable  interest 
because  it  is  our  most  direct  way  of  analysing  atomic  and  molecular 
structure. 

In  any  X-ray  examination  of  a  crystalline  body,  what  we  actually 
measure  is  a  series  of  samples7  of  the  coherent  radiation  scattered  in 
certain  definite  directions  by  the  unit  of  the  structure.  This  unit  is,  in 
general,  the  element  of  pattern  of  the  crystal,  while  in  certain  simple 
cases  it  may  be  a  single  atom. 

In  the  examination  of  a  small  body  by  the  microscope,  the  objective 
receives  the  radiation  scattered  in  different  directions  by  the  body,  and 
the  information  about  its  structure,  which  we  get  by  viewing  the  final 
image,  is  contained  at  an  earlier  stage8  in  these  scattered  beams.  Though 
the  two  cases  of  microscopic  and  X-ray  examination  are  so  similar,  there 
are  certain  important  differences.  The  scattered  beams  in  the  microscope 
can  be  combined  again  to  form  an  image,  and  in  the  formation  of 
the  image  the  phase  relationship  between  beams  scattered  in  different 
directions  plays  an  essential  part.  In  the  X-ray  problem,  since  we  can  only 
measure  the  intensity  of  scattering  in  each  direction,  this  phase  relation- 
ship cannot  be  determined  experimentally,  though  in  many  cases  it  can 
be  inferred.9  Further,  the  microscope  receives  the  scattered  beams  over 
a  continuous  range  of  directions,  whereas  the  geometry  of  the  crystalline 
structure  limits  our  examination  to  certain  directions  of  scattering.  Thus 
we  cannot  form  directly  an  image  of  the  crystalline  unit  which  is  being 


The  intensity  of  X-ray  reflection 


285 


illuminated  by  X-rays.  We  can  only  measure  experimentally  the  strength 
of  the  scattered  beams,  and  then  build  up  an  image  piece  by  piece  from 
the  information  we  have  obtained. 

It  is  important  to  note  that  in  the  case  of  X-ray  examination  all 
work  is  being  carried  out  at  what  is  very  nearly  the  theoretical  limit 
of  the  resolving  power  of  our  instruments.  The  range  of  wavelength 
which  it  is  convenient  to  use  lies  between  0.6  A  and  1.5  A.  This  range 
is  of  sufficiently  small  wavelength  for  work  with  the  details  of  crystal 
structure,  which  is  always  on  a  scale  of  several  Angstrom  units,  but 
the  wavelengths  are  inconveniently  great  for  an  examination  into  atomic 
structure.  It  is  unfortunate  from  a  practical  point  of  view  that  there 
is  no  convenient  steady  source  of  radiation  between  the  K  lines  of  the 
metal  palladium,  and  the  very  much  shorter  K  lines  of  tungsten.  This 
difficulty  will  no  doubt  be  overcome,  and  a  technique  of  'ultraviolet' 
X-ray  microscopy  will  be  developed,  but  at  present  all  the  accurate 
work  on  intensity  of  reflection  has  been  done  with  wavelengths  in  the 
neighbourhood  of  0.7  A. 

We  may  conveniently10  divide  the  process  of  analysis  into  three  stages. 

a)  The  experimental  measurement  of  the  intensities  of  the  diffracted 
beams. 

b)  The  reduction  of  these  observations,  with  the  aid  of  theoretical  for- 
mulae, to  measurements  of  the  amplitudes  of  the  waves  scattered  by  a 
single  unit  of  the  structure,  when  a  wave  train  of  given  amplitude  falls 
on  it. 

c)  The  building  up  of  the  image,  or  deduction  of  the  form  of  the  unit, 
from  these  measurements  of  scattering  in  different  directions. 

2.  —  History  of  the  use  of  quantitative  methods 

The  fundamental  principles  of  a  mathematical  analysis  of  X-ray  reflec- 
tion were  given  in  Laue's  original  paper  [1],  but  the  precise  treatment  of 
intensity  of  reflection  may  be  said  to  have  been  initiated  by  Darwin  [2] 
with  two  papers  in  the  Philosophical  Magazine  early  in  1914,  in  which 
he  laid  down  the  basis  for  a  complete  theory  of  X-ray  reflection  based 
on  the  classical  laws  of  electrodynamics.11  The  very  fundamental  and 
independent  treatment  of  the  whole  problem  by  Ewald  [3],  along  quite 


286 


W.  L.  Bragg 


different  lines,  has  confirmed  Darwin's  conclusions  in  all  essentials.  These 
papers  established  the  following  important  points. 

1.  Two  formulae  for  the  intensity  of  X-ray  reflection  can  be  deduced, 
depending  on  the  assumptions  which  are  made.  The  first  of  these  has 
since  come  to  be  known  as  the  formula  for  the  'ideally  imperfect  crystal' 
or  'mosaic  crystal' @  It  holds  for  a  crystal  in  which  the  homogeneous 
blocks  are  so  small  that  the  reduction  in  intensity  of  a  ray  passing 
through  each  block,  and  being  partly  reflected  by  it,  is  wholly  accounted 
for  by  the  ordinary  absorption  coefficient.  This  case  is  simple  to  treat 
from  a  mathematical  point  of  view,  and  in  actual  fact  many  crystals 
approach  this  physical  condition  of  a  perfect  mosaic. 

The  second  formula  applies  to  reflection  by  an  ideally  perfect  crystal. 
Here  ordinary12  absorption  plays  no  part  in  intensity  of  reflection.  This  is 
perfect  over  a  finite  range  of  glancing  angles,  all  radiation  being  reflected 
within  this  range.  The  range  depends  on  the  efficiency  of  the  atom  planes 
in  scattering.  The  second  formula  is  entirely  different  from  the  first,  and 
leads  to  numerical  results  of  a  different  order  of  magnitude. 

2.  The  actual  intensity  of  reflection  in  the  case  of  rocksalt  is  of  the  order 
to  be  expected  from  the  imperfect  crystal  formula. 

3.  The  observed  rapid  decline  in  intensity  of  the  high  orders  is  only  partly 
accounted  for  by  the  formula  for  reflection,  and  must  be  due  in  addition 
to  the  spatial  distribution  of  scattering  matter  in  the  atoms  (electron 
distribution). 

4.  When  a  crystal  is  so  perfect  that  it  is  necessary  to  allow  for  the 
interaction  of  the  separate  planes,  the  transmitted  beam  is  extinguished 
more  rapidly  than  corresponds  to  the  true  absorption  of  the  crystal 
(extinction). 

5.  There  exists  a  refractive  index  for  both  crystalline  and  amorphous 
substances,  slightly  less  than  unity,  which  causes  small  deviations  from 
the  law  nX  =  2dsm9. 

Another  important  factor  in  intensity  of  reflection  had  been  alrea- 
dy examined  theoretically  by  Debye  [4],  this  being  the  diminution  in 

a  I  believe  we  owe  to  Ewald  the  happy  suggestion  of  the  word  'mosaic'. 


The  intensity  of  X-ray  reflection 


287 


intensity  with  rising  temperature  due  to  atomic  movement.  Though 
subsequent  work  has  put  Debye's  and  Darwin's  formulae  in  modified 
and  more  convenient  forms,  the  essential  features  were  all  contained  in 
these  early  papers. 

On  the  experimental  side,the  first  accurate  quantitative  measurements 
were  made  by  W.  H.  Bragg  [5]. 13  The  crystal  was  moved  with  constant 
angular  velocity  through  the  reflecting  position,  and  the  total  amount 
of  reflected  radiation  measured.  He  showed  that  the  reflection14  from 
rocksalt  for  a  series  of  faces  lay  on  a  smooth  curve  when  plotted  against 
the  sine  of  the  glancing  angle,  emphasising  that  a  definite  physical  con- 
stant was  being  measured.  This  method  of  measurement  has  since  been 
widely  used.  The  quantity  ^f-,  where  E  is  the  total  energy  of  radiation15 
reflected,  u  the  angular  velocity  of  rotation,  and  I  the  total  radiation 
falling  on  the  crystal  face  per  second,  is  independent  of  the  experimental 
arrangements,  and  is  a  constant  for  a  given  reflection  from  a  mosaic 
crystal;  it  is  generally  termed  the  'integrated  reflection'.16  It  is  related 
in  a  simple  way  to  the  energy  measurements  from  a  powdered  crystal, 
which  have  also  been  employed  for  accurate  quantitative  work.  W.  H. 
Bragg's  original  measurements  were  comparisons17  of  this  quantity  for 
different  faces,  not  absolute  measurements  in  which  the  strength  of  an 
incident  beam  was  considered. 

W.  H.  Bragg  further  demonstrated  the  existence  of  the  extinction 
effect  predicted  by  Darwin,  by  passing  X-rays  through  a  diamond  cry- 
stal set  for  reflection  and  obtaining  an  increased  absorption.  He  made 
measurements  of  the  diminution  in  intensity  of  reflection18  with  rising 
temperature  predicted  by  Debye,  and  observed19  by  Laue,  and  showed 
that  the  effect  was  of  the  expected  order.  In  the  Bakerian  Lecture  in 
1915  [6]  he  described  measurements  in  the  intensity  of  a  very  perfect 
crystal,  calcite,  which  seemed  to  show  that  the  intensity  was  proportional 
to  the  scattering  power  of  the  atomic  planes  and  not  to  the  square  of  the 
power  (this  is  to  be  expected  from  the  formula  for  reflection  by  a  perfect 
crystal) .  In  the  same  address  he  proposed  the  use  of  the  Fourier  method 
of  interpreting  the  measurements20  which  has  been  recently  used  with 
such  success  by  Duane,  Havighurst,  and  Compton,  and  which  is  dealt 
with  in  the  fourth  section  of  this  summary.21  At  about  the  same  time, 
Debye  and  Compton  independently  discussed  the  influence  of  electronic 
distribution  in  the  atom  on  the  intensity  of  reflection. 

The  next  step  was  made  by  Compton  [7]  in  1917.  Darwin's  formula  for 
the  mosaic  crystal  was  deduced  by  a  different  method,  and  was  applied 
to  the  interpretation  of  W.  H.  Bragg's  results  with  rocksalt.  Compton 


288 


W.  L.  Bragg 


concluded  that  the  electronic  distribution  in  the  atoms  was  of  the  type  to 
be  expected  from  Bohr's  atomic  model.  Compton  then  published  the  first 
measurements  of  the  absolute  intensity  of  reflexion.  A  monochromatic 
beam  of  X-rays  was  obtained  by  reflection  from  a  crystal,  and  this 
was  reflected  by  a  second  rotating  crystal  (rocksalt  and22  calcite).  The 
absolute  value  of  the  integrated  reflection  was  found  to  be  of  the  right 
order  for  rocksalt  when  calculated  by  the  imperfect  crystal  formula,  but 
to  be  very  low  for  calcite  indicating  strong  extinction  or  a  wrong  formula, 
in  the  second  case. 

In  1921  and  1922  I  published  with  James  and  Bosanquet  a  series 
of  measurements  on  rocksalt  in  which  we  tried  to  obtain  a  high  ac- 
curacy. We  made  absolute  measurements  of  intensity  for  the  strongest 
reflections^  and  compared  the  weaker  reflections  with  them.  Our  main 
contributions  in  these  papers  were  a  more  accurate  set  of  measurements 
of  integrated  reflection  for  a  large  number  of  planes,  and  a  method  for 
estimating  and  correcting  for  the  effect  of  extinction.  As  Darwin  showed 
in  a  paper  in  1922  [9]  on  the  theoretical  interpretation  of  our  results, 
we  only  succeeded  in  correcting  for  extinction  of  the  kind  he  termed  'se- 
condary' and  not  for  'primary'  extinction^  Since  then  measurements  by 
Havighurst  [10],  by  Harris,  Bates  and  Mclnnes23  [11]  and  by  Bearden  [12] 
have  been  made  on  the  reflecting  power  of  powdered  sodium  chloride 
when  extinction  is  absent.  Their  measurements  have  agreed  with  ours 
very  closely  indeed,  confirming  one's  faith  in  intensity  measurements, 
and  showing  that  we  were  fortunate  in  choosing  a  crystal  for  our  ex- 
amination where  primary  extinction  was  very  small.  In  the  same  papers 
we  tried  to  make  a  careful  analysis  of  the  results  in  order  to  find  how 
much  information  about  atomic  structure  could  be  legitimately  deduced 
from  them,  and  we  published  curves  showing  the  electron  distribution 
in  sodium  and  chlorine24  atoms. 

In  this  discussion,  I  have  refrained  from  any  reference  to  the  question 
of  reflection  by  'perfect'  crystals.  The  formula  for  reflection  by  such 
crystals  was  first  obtained  by  Darwin,  and  has  been  arrived  at  inde- 
pendently by  Ewald.  The  reflection  by  such  crystals  has  been  examined 
amongst  others  by  Bergen  Davis25  and  Stempel  [13],  and  by  Mark  [14] 
and  predictions  of  the  theory  have  been  verified.  It  is  not  considered 

a  In  our  paper  we  failed  to  give  due  acknowledgement  to  Compton's  absolute 
measurements  in  1917  of  which  we  were  not  aware  at  the  time. 

b  Primary  extinction  is  an  excessive  absorption  of  the  beam  which  is  being  reflected 
in  each  homogeneous  block  of  crystal,  secondary  extinction  a  statistical  excessive 
absorption  of  the  beam  in  the  many  small  blocks  of  a  mosaic  crystal. 


The  intensity  of  X-ray  reflection 


289 


here,  because  I  wish  to  confine  the  discussion  to  those  cases  where  a 
comparison  of  the  intensity  of  incident  and  reflected  radiation  leads  to 
accurate  quantitative  estimates  of  the  distribution  of  scattering  matter. 
This  ideal  can  be  attained  with  actual  crystals,26  when  they  are  of  the 
imperfect  or  mosaic  type,  though  allowance  for  extinction  is  sometimes 
difficult  in  the  case  of  the  stronger  reflections.  On  the  other  hand,  it  is 
far  more  difficult  to  know  what  one  is  measuring  in  the  case  of  crystals 
which  approximate  to  the  perfect  type.  It  is  a  fortunate  circumstance 
that  mathematical  formulae  can  be  applied  most  easily  to  the  type  of 
imperfect  crystal  more  common  in  nature. 


3.  —  Results  of  quantitative  analysis 

For  the  sake  of  conciseness,  only  one  of  the  many  intensity  formulae  will 
be  given  here,  for  it  illustrates  the  essential  features  of  them  all.  Let  us 
suppose  that  the  integrated  reflection  is  being  measured  when  X-rays 
fall  on  the  face  of  a  rotating  crystal  of  the  mosaic  type.  We  then  have 

_  Q  1  +  cos2  29 
P~  2/j,        2  ' 

(a)  fi  is  the  effective  absorption  coefficient,  which  may  be  greater  than  the 
normal  coefficient,  owing  to  the  existence  of  extinction  at  the  reflecting 
angle. 

(b)  The  factor  1+c°s  26  is  the  'polarisation  factor',  which  arises  because 
the  incident  rays  are  assumed  to  be  unpolarised. 


sin  29 


where  e  and  m  are  the  electronic  constants,27  c  the  velocity  of  light,  A 
the  wavelength  used,  N  the  number  of  scattering  units  per  unit  volume, 
and  9  the  glancing  angle. 

(d)  F  is  the  quantity  we  are  seeking  to  deduce.  It  represents  the  scat- 
tering power  of  the  crystal  unit  in  the  direction  under  consideration, 
measured  in  terms  of  the  scattering  power  of  a  single28  electron  according 
to  the  classical  formula  of  J.  J.  Thomson.  It  is  defined  by  Ewald  as  the 
'Atomfaktor'29  when  it  applies  to  a  single  atom. 


290 


W.  L.  Bragg 


Formulae  applicable  to  other  experimental  arrangements  (the  powder 
method  for  instance)  are  very  similar,  and  contain  the  same  quantity  Q. 
Our  measurements  of  reflection  thus  lead  to  values  of  Q,  and  so  of  F, 
since  all  other  quantities  in  the  formulae  are  known.  Measurements  on 
a  given  crystal  yield  a  series  of  values  for  F,  and  all  the  information 
that  can  be  found  out  about  this  crystalline  or  atomic  structure  is 
represented  by  these  values.  They  are  the  same  for  the  same  crystal 
whatever  wavelength  is  employed  (since  F  is  a  function  of  though 
of  course  with  shorter  wavelength  we  have  the  advantage  of  measuring 
a  much  greater  number  of  these  coefficients  (increased  resolving  power) . 

At  this  stage  the  effect  of  the  thermal  agitation  of  the  atom  will  be 
considered  as  influencing  the  value  of  F.  If  we  wish  to  make  deducti- 
ons about  atomic  structure,  the  thermal  agitation  must  be  taken  into 
account.  Allowance  for  it  is  a  complicated  matter,  because  not  only  do 
some  atoms  move  more  than  others,  but  also  they  change  their  relative 
mean  positions  as  the  temperature  alters  in  the  more  complex  crystals. 

This  will  be  dealt  with  more  fully  below. 

A  series  of  examples  will  now  be  given  to  show  that  these  quantitative 
formulae,  when  tested,  lead  to  results  which  indicate  that  the  theory  is 
on  the  right  lines.  It  is  perhaps  more  convincing  to  study  the  results 
obtained  with  very  simple  crystals,  though  I  think  that  the  success  of 
the  theory  in  analysing  highly  complex  structures  is  also  very  strong 
evidence,  because  we  have  covered  such  a  wide  range  of  substances. 

In  the  simple  crystals,  where  the  positions  of  the  atoms  are  definite, 
we  can  get  the  scattering  power  of  individual  atoms.  The  results  should 
both  indicate  the  correct  number  of  electrons  in  the  atom,  and  should 
outline  an  atom  of  about  the  right  size.  When  F  is  plotted  against 
its  value  should  tend  to  the  number,  N,  of  electrons  in  the  atom  for  small 
values  of  and  should  fall  away  as  increases,  at  a  rate  which  is 
reasonably  explained  by  the  spatial  extension  of  the  atom.  In  Fig.  1,  the 
full  lines  give  F  curves  obtained  experimentally  by  various  observers. 
The  dotted  lines  are  F  curves  calculated  for  the  generalised  atomic 
model  of  Thomas  [15],  of  appropriate  atomic  number.  The  Thomas 
atomic  model,  which  has  been  shown  for  comparison,  is  most  useful 
as  it  gives  us  the  approximate  electronic  distribution  in  an  atom  of  any 
atomic  number.  Thomas  calculates  an  ideal  distribution  of  electrons  in 
an  atom  of  high  atomic  number.  He  assumes  spherical  symmetry  for 
the  atom,  and  supposes  that  'electrons  are  distributed  uniformly  in  the 
six-dimensional  phase-space  for  the  motion  of  an  electron,  at  the  rate 


The  intensity  of  X-ray  reflection 


291 


11 

Ed 

to- 

1 
I 
A 

\             Fe  1S_ 

ordinates  F 
\                        abscissae  sin$ 
\                           (X  =  0.710  A) 

v 

\\ 

10- 

o 

5- 

—  T 1  -     1        1        1        !  1 

flu       0£     0.3     Q4     0.5     HG  0.7 

!       1       1       1       1       1  I 

0.1      0.2      D.3     0^      [15     D,G  V 

t  ,  r.    ■  ,        r  ,  ,  rl0. 

\  10- 

n 

5- 

I   t   I  I 


Fig.  1. 

of  two  for  each  h3  of  (six)  volume'.30  He  thus  obtains  an  ideal  electron 
atmosphere  around  the  nucleus,  the  constants  of  which  can  be  simply 
adjusted31  so  as  to  be  suitable  for  any  given  nuclear  charge.  It  is  of  course 
to  be  expected  that  the  lower  the  atomic  weight,  the  more  the  actual 
distribution  of  scattering  matter  will  depart  from  this  arrangement,  and 
will  reflect  the  idiosyncrasies  of  the  particular  atom  in  question.  The 
figure  will  show,  however,  that  the  actual  curves  are  very  similar  to  those 
calculated  for  Thomas'  models.  In  particular,  it  will  be  clear  that  they 
tend  to  maximum  values  not  far  removed  from  the  number  of  electrons  in 
the  atom  in  each  case.  The  general  agreement  between  the  observed  and 
calculated  F  curves  must  mean  that  our  measurements  of  F  are  outlining 
a  picture  of  the  atom.  The  agreement  holds  also  for  other  atomic  models 
than  those  of  Thomas,  which  all  lead  to  atoms  with  approximately  the 
same  spatial  extension  and  electronic  distribution,  as  is  well  known. 

All  these  measurements  of  F  necessitate  absolute  values  for  the  inte- 
grated reflection.  It  is  not  necessary  to  measure  these  directly  in  each 


292 


W.  L.  Bragg 


case.  When  any  one  reflection  has  been  measured  in  absolute  value  (by 
comparison  of  incident  and  reflected  radiation),  other  crystals  may  be 
compared  with  it.  The  standard  which  has  been  used  in  every  case,  as 
far  as  I  am  aware,  is  the  rocksalt  crystal.  Absolute  measurements  on  this 
have  been  made  by  Compton  [7],  by  Bragg,  James  and  Bosanquet  [8], 
and  by  Wasastjerna  [18]  which  agree  satisfactorily  with  each  other. 


4.  —  Interpretation  of  measurements  of  F 

In  interpreting  these  measurements  of  scattering  power,  we  may  either 
calculate  the  scattering  of  a  proposed  atomic  model  and  compare  it 
with  the  observed  F  curve,  or  we  may  use  the  observations  to  calculate 
the  distribution  of  scattering  matter  directly.  The  latter  method  is  the 
more  attractive,  and  in  the  hands  of  Duane,  Havighurst,  and  Comp- 
ton it  has  yielded  highly  interesting  'images'  of  the  atomic  structure 
seen  by  X-rays.  There  is  a  close  analogy  between  the  examination  of 
a  series  of  parallel  planes  by  means  of  X-rays,  and  the  examination  of 
a  diffraction  grating,  by  a  microscope,  which  is  considered  in  Abbe's 
theory  of  microscopic  visionQ  The  objective  of  the  microscope  may  be 
considered  as  receiving  a  limited  number  of  orders  of  spectra  from  the 
grating.  These  spectra  in  their  turn  build  up  the  image  viewed  by  the 
eyepiece,  and  the  perfection  of  this  image  depends  on  the  number  of 
spectra  received.  The  strength  of  each  spectral  order  depends  on  the 
magnitude  of  the  corresponding  coefficient  in  that  Fourier  series  which 
represents  the  amplitude  of  the  light  transmitted  at  each  point  of  the 
grating.  The  extension  of  this  well-known  optical  principle  to  the  X-ray 
field  was  suggested  by  W.  H.  Bragg  [6]  in  1915.  He  had  formed  the 
conclusion32  that  the  amplitudes  of  the  scattered  wave  from  rocksalt 
were  inversely  proportional  to  the  square  of  the  order  of  reflection,  and 
he  showed  that33  'the  periodic  function  which  represents  the  density  of 
the  medium  must  therefore  be  of  the  form34 

cos27r§     cos  4-7T  ■§  cos2n7r§ 

const  H  7^-  +  — 7^-+  ■■■  H  o— ~+  •■■  ' 

lz  2Z  nz 

and  in  this  way  built  up  a  curve  showing  the  periodic  density  of  the 
rocksalt  grating.  The  method  was  not  applied,  however,  to  the  much 
more  accurate  measurements  which  are  now  available  until  recently, 
when  Duane  and  Havighurst  showed  how  much  could  be  done  with  it. 


a  See  for  instance  the  discussion  of  this  theory  and  of  A.  B.  Porter's  experiments  to 
illustrate  it  in  Wood's  Optics,  Chapter  VIII. 


The  intensity  of  X-ray  reflection 


293 


Duane  independently  arrived  at  a  more  general  formula  of  the  same  type, 
giving  the  density  of  scattering  matter  at  any  point  in  the  whole  crystal 
as  a  triple  Fourier  series,  whose  coefficients  depend  on  the  intensity  of 
reflection  from  planes  of  all  possible  indices.  Havighurst  applied  this 
principle  to  our  measurements  of  rocksalt,  and  to  measurements  which  he 
has  made  on  other  crystals,  and  obtained  a  picture  of  the  relative  density 
of  scattering  matter  along  certain  lines  in  these  crystals.  Compton  made 
the  further  step  of  putting  the  formulae  in  a  form  which  gives  the 
absolute  density  of  electronic  distribution  (assuming  the  scattering  to 
be  by  electrons  obeying  the  classical  laws).  Compton  gives  a  very  full 
discussion  of  the  whole  matter  in  his  book  X-rays  and  Electrons.35  It 
is  not  only  an  extremely  attractive  way  of  making  clear  just  what  has 
been  achieved  by  the  X-ray  analysis,  but  also  the  most  direct  method  of 
determining  the  structure. 

The  formula  for  the  distribution  of  scattering  matter  in  parallel  sheets, 
for  a  crystal  with  a  centre  of  symmetry,  is  given  by  Compton  as  follows 

Z     2  ^  _  2imz 


pz  =  -  +  -J2F« 

a         n  — ' 


COS  ■ 


Here  z  is  measured  perpendicularly  to  the  planes  which  are  spaced  a 
distance  a  apart.  Pzdz  is  the  amount  of  scattering  matter  between  planes 
at  distances  z  and  z  +  dz,  and  Z  (=  Pzdz)  is  the  total  scattering 
matter  of  the  crystal  unit.  This  is  a  simplified  form  of  Duane's  formula 
for  a  Fourier  series  of  which  the  general  term  is 


A„in2„3  sin  (j^—  -  iij  sin  ^ 


2im2y     r    \   .    /  27rn3z 
 <5„2    sin  5n3 


C12  /       \  a3 

Anin2n3  being  proportional  to  the  amplitude  of  the  scattered  wave  from 
the  plane  (nir^ns). 

Another  Fourier  series,  due  to  Compton,  gives  the  radial  distribution 
of  scattering  matter,  i.e.  the  values  of  Un  where  Undr  is  the  amount  of 
scattering  matter  between  radii  r  and  r  +  dr 

8nr  ^  2irnr 

Un  =  —5-  }   nFn  sin   , 

a1  a 

where  a  is  chosen  so  that  values  of  F  occur  at  convenient  intervals  on 
the  graph  for  F. 

If  we  know  the  values  of  F  for  a  given  atom  over  a  sufficiently  wide 
range,  we  can  build  up  an  image  of  the  atom  either  as  a  'sheet  dis- 
tribution' parallel  to  a  plane,  or  as  a  radial  distribution  of  scattering 


294 


W.  L.  Bragg 


matter  around  the  nucleus.  In  using  these  methods  of  analysis,  howe- 
ver, it  is  very  necessary  to  remember  that  we  are  working  right  at  the 
limit  of  resolving  power  of  our  instruments,  and  in  fact  are  attempting 
a  more  ambitious  problem  than  in  the  corresponding  optical  case.  In 
A.  B.  Porter's  experiments  to  test  Abbe's  theory,  he  viewed  the  image 
of  a  diffraction  grating  and  removed  any  desired  group  of  diffracted  rays 
by  cutting  them  off  with  a  screen.  The  first  order  gives  blurred  lines,  four 
or  five  orders  give  sharper  lines  with  a  fine  dark  line  down  the  centre, 
eight  orders  give  two  dark  lines  down  the  centre  of  each  bright  line  and 
so  forth.  These  imperfect  images  are  due  to  the  absences  of  the  higher 
members  in  building  up  the  Fourier  series.  In  exactly  the  same  way  we 
get  false  detail  in  our  X-ray  image,  owing  to  ignorance  of  the  values  of 
the  higher  members  in  the  F  curve.  Similarly,  the  fine  structure  which 
actually  exists  may  be  glossed  over,  since  by  using  a  wavelength  of  0.7  A, 
we  cannot  hope  to  'resolve'  details  of  atomic  structure  on  a  scale  of  less 
than  half  this  value. 

The  ignorance  of  the  values  of  higher  members  of  the  Fourier  series 
matters  much  less  in  the  curve  of  sheet  distribution  than  in  that  for 
radial  distribution,  since  the  latter  converges  far  more  slowly.  Examples 
of  the  Fourier  method  of  analysis  are  given  in  the  next  paragraph. 

As  opposed  to  this  method  of  building  up  an  image  from  the  X-ray 
results,36  we  may  make  an  atomic  model  and  test  it  by  calculating  an  F 
curve  for  it  which  can  be  compared  with  that  obtained  experimentally. 
This  is  the  most  satisfactory  method  of  testing  models  arrived  at  by 
other  lines  of  research,  for  nothing  has  to  be  assumed  about  the  values 
of  the  higher  coefficients  F.  It  is  of  course  again  true  that  our  test  only 
applies  to  details  of  the  proposed  model  on  a  scale  comparable  with  the 
wavelength  we  are  using.  Since  we  can  reflect  X-rays  right  back  from  an 
atomic  plane,  we  may  get  a  resolving  power  for  a  given  wavelength  with 
the  X-ray  method  twice  as  great  as  the  best  the  microscope  can  yield. 

It  is  perhaps  worth  mentioning  the  methods  I  used  with  James  and 
Bosanquet  in  our  determination  of  the  electronic  distribution  in  sodium 
and  chlorine  in  1922.  We  tried  to  avoid  extrapolations  of  the  F  curve 
beyond  the  limit  of  experimental  investigation.  We  divided  the  atom 
arbitrarily  into  a  set  of  shells,  with  an  unknown  number  of  electrons 
in  each  shell.  These  unknowns  were  evaluated  by  making  the  scattering 
due  to  them  fit  the  F  curve  over  the  observed  range,  this  being  simply 
done  by  solving  simultaneous  linear  equations.  We  found  we  got  much 
the  same  type  of  distribution  however  the  shells  were  chosen,  and  that  a 
limit  to  the  electronic  distribution  at  a  radius  of  about  1.1  A  in  sodium 


The  intensity  of  X-ray  reflection 


295 


Na  CI. 


Fig.  2. 

and  1.8  A  in  chlorine  was  clearly  indicated.  Our  distribution  corresponds 
in  its  general  outline  to  that  found  by  the  much  more  direct  Fourier 
analysis,  as  the  examples  in  paragraph  7  will  show. 

5.  —  Examples  of  analysis 

We  owe  to  Duane  [20]  the  appreciation  of  the  very  attractive  way  in 
which  the  Fourier  analysis  represents  the  results  of  X-ray  examinations. 
It  has  the  great  merit  of  representing,  in  the  form  of  a  single  curve, 
the  information  yielded  by  all  orders  of  reflection  from  a  given  plane, 
or  from  the  whole  crystal.  It  is  of  course  only  an  alternative  way  of 
interpreting  the  results,  and  the  deductions  we  can  make  about  atomic 
or  molecular  structures  depend  in  the  end  on  the  extent  to  which  we  can 


296 


W.  L.  Bragg 


Beryl 


Fig.  3a.  —  Distribution  of  electrons  in  sheets  parallel  to  0001. 

trust  our  experimental  observations,  and  not  on  the  method  of  analysis 
we  use.  The  Fourier  method  is  so  direct  however,  and  its  significance  so 
easy  to  grasp,  that  Duane's  introduction  of  it  marks  a  great  advance  in 
technique  of  analysis. 

I  have  reserved  to  paragraph  7  the  more  difficult  problem  of  the  arran- 
gement of  scattering  matter  in  the  atoms  themselves,  and  the  examples 
given  here  are  of  a  simpler  character.  They  illustrate  the  application  of 
analysis  to  the  general  problem  of  the  distribution  of  scattering  matter  in 
the  whole  crystal,  when  we  are  not  so  near  the  limit  of  resolving  power. 
The  curves  in  Fig.  2  represent  the  first  application  of  the  new  method 
of  Fourier  analysis  to  accurate  data,  carried  out  by  Havighurst  [21]  in 
1925.  He  used  our  determinations  of  F  for  sodium  chloride,  and  Duane's 
three-dimensional  Fourier  series,  and  calculated  the  density  of  scattering 
matter  along  a  cube  edge  through  sodium  and  chlorine  centres,  along  a 
cube  diagonal  through  the  same  atoms,  and  along  two  face  diagonals 
chosen  so  as  to  pass  through  chlorine  atoms  alone  or  sodium  atoms 
alone  in  the  crystal.  The  atoms  show  as  peaks  in  the  density  distribution. 
In  the  other  examples,  the  formula  for  distribution  in  sheets  has  been 


The  intensity  of  X-ray  reflection 


297 


,  j,  a  atii  l]i  i>a  a  i 


Fig.  3b.  —  Distribution  of  electrons  in  sheets  parallel  to  1010. 


applied  to  some  results  we  have  obtained  in  our  work  on  crystal  structure 
at  Manchester.  I  have  given  them  because  I  feel  they  are  convincing 
evidence  of  the  power  of  quantitative  measurements,  and  show  that  all 
methods  of  interpretations  lead  to  the  same  results. 

Mr  West  and  I  [22]  recently  analysed  the  hexagonal  crystal  beryl, 
Be3Al2SieOi8,38  which  has  a  structure  of  some  complexity,  depending 
on  seven  parameters.  We  obtained  the  atomic  positions  by  the  usual 
method  of  analysis,  using  more  or  less  known  F  curves  for  the  atoms  in 
the  crystal,  and  moving  them  about  till  we  explained  the  observed  Fs  due 
to  the  crystal  unit.  Fig.  3  shows  the  reinterpretations  of  this  result  by  the 
Fourier  method.  Fig.  3a  gives  the  electron  density  in  sheets  perpendicular 
to  the  principal  axis  of  the  crystal,  which  is  of  a  very  simple  type.  The 
particular  point  to  be  noted  is  the  correspondence  between  the  position 
of  the  line  B  in  the  figure  and  the  hump  of  the  Fourier  analysis.  The  line 
B  marks  the  position  of  a  group  of  oxygen  atoms  which  lies  between  two 
other  groups  A  and  C  fixed  by  symmetry,  the  position  of  B  being  fixed 
by  a  parameter  found  by  familiar  methods  of  crystal  analysis.  The  hump 
represents  the  same  group  fixed  by  the  Fourier  analysis,  and  it  will  be 
seen  how  closely  they  correspond.  In  Figs.  3b  and  3c  more  complex  sets 
of  planes  are  shown.  The  dotted  curve  represents  the  interpretation  of 
our  results  by  Fourier  analysis.  The  full  curve  is  got  by  adding  together 
the  humps  due  to  the  separate  atoms  shown  below,  the  position  of  these 
having  been  obtained  by  our  X-ray  analysis  and  their  sizes  by  the  aid 
of  the  curve  in  Fig.  3a  in  which  the  contribution  of  the  atoms  can  be 
separated  out.  The  correspondence  between  the  two  shows  that  the  older 
methods  and  the  Fourier  analysis  agree.  It  is  to  be  noted  that  the  crystal 


298 


W.  L.  Bragg 


Fig.  3c.  —  Distribution  of  electrons  in  sheets  parallel  to  1120. 


42 


had  first  to  be  analysed  by  the  older  methods,  in  order  that  the  sizes  of 
the  Fourier  coefficients  might  be  known. 

In  Fig.  4  I  have  given  a  set  of  curves  for  the  alums,  recently  analysed  by 
Professor  Cork  [23].  The  alums  are  complicated  cubic  crystals  with  such 
formulae  as  KA1(S04)2-12  H2O.  Wyckoff40  has  shown  that  the  potassium 
and  aluminium  atoms41  occupy  the  same  positions  in  the  cubic  cell 
as  the  sodium  atom  in  rocksalt.  Now  we  can  replace  the  potassium 
by  ammonium,  rubidium,  caesium,  or  thallium,  and  the  aluminium  by 
chromium,  or  other  trivalent  metals.  Though  the  positions  of  the  other 
atoms  in  the  crystals  are  not  yet  known,  they  will  presumably  be  much 
the  same  in  all  these  crystals.  If  we  represent  by  a  Fourier  series  the 
quantitative  measurements  of  the  alums,  we  would  expect  the  density  of 
scattering  matter  to  vary  from  crystal  to  crystal  at  the  points  occupied 
by  the  metal  atoms,  but  to  remain  constant  elsewhere.  The  curves  show 
this  in  the  most  interesting43  way. 


The  intensity  of  X-ray  reflection 


299 


Fig.  4. 

The  effect  of  heat  motion  on  the  movements  of  the  atoms  has  already 
been  mentioned.  It  was  first  treated  theoretically  by  Debye  [4].  Recent- 
ly Waller  [24]  has  recalculated  Debye's  formula,  and  has  arrived  at  a 
modified  form  of  it.  Debye  found  that  the  intensities  of  the  interference 
maxima  in  a  simple  crystal  should  be  multiplied  by  a  factor  e~M ,  where 

6h2  (p(x)  sin2  9 
/j,k@    x  A2 

0      characteristic  temperature  of  crystal 
T  absolute  temperature 

Without  going  into  further  detail,  it  is  sufficient  to  note  that  Waller's 
formula  differs  from  Debye's  by  making  the  factor  e_2M,  not  e~M .  James 
and  Miss  Firth  [25]  have  recently  carried  out  a  series  of  measurements 


300 


W.  L.  Bragg 


Fig.  5. 

for  rocksalt  between  the  temperatures  86°  abs.  and  900°  abs.  They  find 
that  Waller's  formula  is  very  closely  followed  up  to  500°  abs.,  though 
at  higher  temperatures  the  decline  in  intensity  is  even  more  rapid,  as 
is  perhaps  to  be  expected  owing  to  the  crystal  becoming  more  loosely 
bound.  I  have  given  the  results  of  the  measurements  in  Figs.  5  and  6, 
both  as  an  example  of  the  type  of  information  which  can  be  got  from 
X-ray  measurements,  and  because  these  actual  figures  are  of  interest  as 
a  set  of  careful  and  accurate  measurements  of  scattering  power. 

Fig.  5  shows  the  F  curves  for  sodium  and  chlorine  at  different  tem- 
peratures. The  rapid  decline  in  intensity  for  the  higher  orders  will  be 
realised  when  it  is  remembered  that  they  are  proportional  to  F2.  The 


The  intensity  of  X-ray  reflection 


301 


30/ 

,&6°A  f 

30 

J  / 

II 
f 

1  zo 

1  a 
s 

1 

1 

1  S3 

1 

Q0°J1  / 

^  ; 

.1 

u 

V  \ 

V    \                            / '/ 

■  D 

*  

U  \ 

Fig.  6. 


curve  for  absolute  zero  is  an  extrapolation  from  the  others,  following  the 
Debye  formula  as  modified  by  Waller. 

In  Fig.  6  the  same  results  are  interpreted  by  the  Fourier  analysis. 
The  curve  at  room  temperatures  for  NaCl  is  practically  identical  with 
the  interpretation  of  our  earlier  figures  by  Compton,  in  his  book  X-rays 
and  Electrons,44  though  the  figures  on  which  it  is  based  should  be  more 
accurate.45  The  curves  show  the  manner  in  which  the  sharply  defined 
peaks  due  to  CI  and  Na  at  low  temperatures  become  diffuse  owing  to 
heat  motion  at  the  higher  temperatures. 

Several  interesting  points  arise  in  connection  with  this  analysis.  In 
the  first  place,  James  and  Firth46  find  that  the  heat  factor  is  different 
for  sodium  and  chlorine,  the  sodium  atoms  moving  with  greater  average 
amplitudes  than  the  chlorine  atoms.  This  has  a  very  interesting  bearing 
on  the  crystal  dynamics  which  is  being  further  investigated  by  Waller. 
To  a  first  approximation  both  atoms  are  affected  equally  by  the  elastic 
waves  travelling  through  the  crystal,  but  in  a  further  approximation  it 
can  be  seen  that  the  sodium  atoms  are  more  loosely  bound  than  the 


302 


W.  L.  Bragg 


Fig.  7. 

chlorine  atoms.  If  an  atom  of  either  kind  were  only  fixed  in  position 
by  the  six  atoms  immediately  surrounding  it,  Waller  has  shown  that 
there  would  be  no  difference  between  the  motions  of  a  sodium  atom 
between  six  chlorine  atoms,  or  a  chlorine  atom  between  six  sodium 
atoms.  However,  the  chlorine  is  more  firmly  pinned  in  position  because 
it  has  in  addition  twelve  large  chlorine  neighbours,  whereas  the  sodium 
atom  is  much  less  influenced  by  the  twelve  nearest  sodium  atoms.  Hence 
arises  the  difference  in  their  heat  motions.  It  is  important  to  find  the 
correct  method  for  reducing  observations  to  absolute  zero,  and  this 
difference  in  heat  motion  must  be  satisfactorily  analysed  before  this  is 
possible. 

In  the  second  place,  the  accuracy  which  can  be  attained  by  the  ex- 
perimental measurements  holds  out  some  hope  that  we  may  be  able  to 
test  directly  whether  there  is  zero-point  energy47  or  not.  This  is  being 
investigated  by  James  and  Waller.  If  a  reliable  atomic  model  is  available, 
it  would  seem  that  the  measurements  can  tell  whether  there  is  vibration 
at  absolute  zero  or  not,  for  the  theoretical  diminution  in  intensity  due  to 
the  vibration  is  much  larger  than  the  experimental  error  in  measuring 


The  intensity  of  X-ray  reflection 


303 


F.  I  feel  considerable  diffidence  in  speaking  of  the  question  of  zero-point 
energy,  and  would  like  to  have  the  advice  of  the  mathematical  physicists 
present. 

We  may  calculate,  either  from  the  measured  heat  factor  or  directly 
from  the  Fourier  analyses,  the  average  amplitude  of  vibration  for  diffe- 
rent temperatures.  James  and  Firth  find  by  both  methods,  for  instance, 
that  at  room  temperature  the  mean  amplitude  of  vibration  for  both 
atoms  is  0.21  A,  and  at  900°  abs.  it  is  about  0.58  A.  They  examined  the 
form  which  the  Fourier  curve  at  0°  abs.  assumes  when  it  is  deformed 
by  supposing  all  the  atoms  to  be  in  vibration  with  the  same  mean 
amplitude. 

It  has  been  already  remarked  that  the  observed  F  curves  for  atoms 
are  very  similar  to  those  calculated  for  the  Thomas  atomic  model.  The 
same  comparison  may  be  made  between  the  distributions  of  scattering 
matter.  In  Fig.  7  the  distribution  in  sheets  for  NaCl  at  absolute  zero  is 
shown  as  a  full  curve.  The  dotted  curve  shows  the  horizontal  distribution 
in  sheets  for  atoms  of  atomic  number  17  and  11.  In  Thomas'  model  the 
density  rises  towards  an  infinite  value  very  close  to  the  nucleus,  and  this 
is  represented  by  the  very  sharp  peaks  at  the  atomic  centres  in  the  dotted 
curve.  We  would  not  expect  the  observed  distribution  to  correspond  to 
the  actual  Thomas  distribution  at  these  points.  Throughout  the  rest  of 
the  crystal  the  distribution  is  very  similar.  The  comparison  is  interesting, 
because  it  shows  how  delicate  a  matter  it  is  to  get  the  fine  detail  of 
atomic  structure  from  the  observations.  Thomas'  distribution  is  quite 
continuous  and  takes  no  account  of  K,  L  and  M  sets  of  electrons.  The 
slight  departures  of  the  observed  curve  from  the  smooth  Thomas  curve 
represent  the  experimental  evidence  for  the  existence  of  all  the  individual 
features  of  the  atom. 

6.  —  The  mechanism  of  X-ray  scattering 

Before  going  on  to  discuss  the  application  of  the  analysis  to  atomic 
structure,  it  is  necessary  to  consider  what  is  being  measured  when  a 
distribution  of  scattering  matter  is  deduced  from  the  X-ray  results.  The 
classical  treatment  regards  the  atom  as  containing  a  number  of  electrons, 
each  of  which  scatters  radiation  according  to  the  formula  of  J.  J.  Thom- 
son. Since  a  vast  number  of  atoms  contribute  to  the  reflection  by  a 
single  crystal  plane,  we  should  obtain  a  picture  of  the  average  electronic 
distribution.  The  quantity  F  should  thus  tend  to  a  maximum  value,  at 
small  angles  of  scattering,  equal  to  the  number  of  electrons  in  the  atom, 


304 


W.  L.  Bragg 


and  should  fall  away  owing  to  their  spatial  distribution  as  increases. 
The  observed48  F  curves  are  of  this  character,  as  has  been  seen.  When 
interpreted  as  an  atomic  distribution,  they  give  atoms  containing  the 
correct  number  of  electrons,  and  this  seems  satisfactory  from  the  classical 
viewpoint.  On  the  other  hand,  the  evidence  of  the  Compton  effect  would 
appear  at  first  sight  to  cast  doubt  on  the  whole  of  our  analysis.  What 
we  are  measuring  is  essentially  the  coherent  radiation  diffracted  by  the 
crystal,  whereas  the  Compton  effect  shows  that  a  part  of  the  radiation 
which  is  scattered  is  of  different  wavelength.  Further,  this  radiation  of 
different  wavelength  is  included  with  the  coherent  radiation,  when  the 
total  amount  of  scattered  radiation  is  measured,  and  found  to  agree 
under  suitable  conditions  with  the  amount  predicted  by  J.  J.  Thomson's 
formula.  It  would  therefore  seem  wrong  to  assume  that  we  obtain  a 
true  picture  of  electronic  distribution  by  the  aid  of  measurements  on  the 
coherent  radiation  alone. 

Even  before  the  advent  of  the  new  mechanics,  Compton's  original 
treatment  of  the  effect  which  he  discovered  suggested  a  way  out  of  this 
difficulty.  The  recoil  electron  is  given  an  amount  of  energy 


where  v  and  v'  are  the  frequencies  of  the  modified  and  unmodified 
radiations.  If  the  electron  is  ejected  from  the  atom  the  radiation  is 
modified  in  wavelength,  if  not  coherent  waves  are  scattered.  Since  there 
is  little  modified  scattering  at  small  angles,  the  F  curve  will  tend  to 
a  maximum  equal  to  the  number  of  electrons  in  the  atom,  and  any 
interpretation  of  the  curve  will  give  an  atom  containing  the  correct 
number  of  electrons.  As  increases,  more  and  more  of  the  scattered 
radiation  will  be  modified,  and  in  calculating  the  F  curve  this  must  be 
taken  into  account.  However,  if  ^-  is  not  far  from  unity,  the  F  curve 
will  remain  a  function  of  since  whatever  criterion  is  applied  for 

the  scattering  of  modified  or  unmodified  radiation,  it  will  depend  on  the 
energy  imparted  to  the  scattering  electron,  which  is  itself  a  function  of 
Our  X-ray  analysis  would  thus  give  us  an  untrue  picture  of  the 
atom,  but  one  which  is  consistently  the  same  whatever  wavelength  is 
employed.  Williams  [27]  and  Jauncey  [28]  have  recalculated  F  curves 
from  atomic  models  using  this  criterion,  and  found  a  better  fit  to  the 
experimental  curves  when  the  Compton  effect  was  taken  into  account. 
(Examples  of  this  closer  approximation  will  be  found  in  the  paper  by 


The  intensity  of  X-ray  reflection 


305 


^  —  -  —  C&lc.  (Thomas1  model)  "~*  ^ 

  —  Obs.  (James  and  Firth) 

^  -  ■ 

O    O     O  assuming  aero  point  energy 

2  - 


I  .  .  i  .  ,  .  I 

(.1  0,2  03  OA  0.5  (16  07 

sinS!?.  =  0.?iaA> 


Fig.  8. 


Williams  [27]  in  1926.  See  also  a  discussion  by  Kallmann  and  Mark 
[26]). 49 

The  point  at  issue  is  illustrated  by  the  curves  in  Fig.  8.  Three  F  curves 
for  chlorine  are  plotted  in  the  figure.  The  dotted  line  represents  the 
observed  F  curve  (James  and  Firth) .  The  continuous  line  is  the  F  curve 
calculated  from  Hartree's  [29]  atomic  model  for  chlorine.  It  shows  a  hump 
at  a  value  of  sin#  of  0.4,  which  is  not  present  in  the  observed  curve.  This 
hump  arises  from  the  fact  that  the  outer  electrons  in  the  chlorine  model 
give  negative  values  for  F  just  short  of  this  point,50  and  positive  values 


306 


W.  L.  Bragg 


again  at  the  point  itself.  All  atomic  models  calculated  with  electronic 
orbits  show  similar  irregularities  which  are  not  actually  observed.  When, 
however,  the  Compton  effect  is  taken  into  consideration,  these  outer 
electrons  are  found  to  give  a  very  small  contribution  to  the  F  curve  at 
the  large  angles  where  the  humps51  occur,  because  they  scatter  so  much 
modified  radiation.  The  allowance  for  the  Compton  effect  smooths  out 
the  hump,  and  leads  to  F  curves  much  more  like  those  observed.  The 
third  curve  shows  the  F  curve  due  to  the  continuous  Thomas  distribution 
and  is  a  close  fit  to  the  observed  curve. 

I  have  quoted  from  a  note  by  Dr  Ivar  Waller,  in  the  following  tentative 
summary  of  the  interpretation  which  the  new  mechanics  gives  us  of  this 
phenomenon^  In  a  recent  letter  to  Nature  [30],  Waller  discusses  the 
transition  for  the  whole  range  from  ordinary  dispersion  into  Compton 
effect.  His  note  only  refers  to  scattering  by  a  single  electron,  but  it  can 
probably  be  extended  to  many-electron  atoms.  Waves  of  continually 
decreasing  wavelength  are  supposed  to  fall  upon  the  atom,  and  the 
transition  is  traced  through  the  following  stages. 

a)  While  the  wavelength  of  the  radiation  remains  long  compared  with 
atomic  dimensions,  the  dispersion  formula  for  optical  frequencies  gra- 
dually transforms  into  the  scattering  for  free  electrons  given  by  the 
classical  J.J.  Thomson  formula.  This  formula  holds  approximately  to52 
wavelengths  approaching  atomic  dimensions. 

b)  At  this  point  the  scattering  of  coherent  radiation  will  diminish,  owing 
to  interference,  and  become  more  concentrated  in  the  forward  direction 
of  the  incident  light.  This  is  the  phenomenon  we  are  studying,  with  X- 
rays,  and  our  F  curves  map  out  the  distribution  of  the  coherent  radiation 
where  the  wavelength  is  of  atomic  dimensions. 

c)  At  the  same  time,  the  scattering  of  incoherent  radiation  will  become 
appreciable,  and  approximate  more  and  more  closely  in  change  of  wa- 
velength and  intensity  distribution  to  the  Compton  effect.  It  will  have 
practically  merged  into  the  Compton  effect  when  the  momentum  of  a 
quantum  of  the  incident  light  is  large  compared  with  that  corresponding 
to  electronic  motions  in  the  atom. 

d)  Up  to  this  point  the  Thomson  formula  holds  for  the  total  intensity 

a  Space  forbids  a  reference  to  the  many  theoretical  papers  which  have  contributed 
towards  this  interpretation. 


The  intensity  of  X-ray  reflection 


307 


of  light  scattered  in  any  direction,  coherent  and  incoherent  radiation 
being  summed  together.  It  first  ceases  to  hold,  when  the  frequency 
displacement  due  to  the  Compton  effect  is  no  longer  small  compared 
with  the  frequency  of  the  incident  light. 

The  point  of  importance  for  our  present  problem  is  that  'the  coherent 
part  of  the  radiation  is  to  be  directly  calculated  from  that  continuous 
distribution  of  electricity  which  is  defined  by  the  Schrodinger  density- 
distribution  in  the  initial  state  of  the  atom'.  The  classical  treatment 
supposes  each  point  electron  to  scatter  according  to  the  J.  J.  Thomson 
formula  in  all  directions.  In  the  new  treatment,  the  electron  is  replaced 
by  a  spatial  distribution  of  scattering  matter,  and  so  each  electron  has 
an  'F  curve'  of  its  own.  It  will  still  scatter  coherent  radiation  in  all 
directions,  but  its  amount  will  fall  away  from  that  given  by  the  classical 
formula  owing  to  interference  as  increases,  and  this  decline  will  be 
much  more  rapid  for  the  more  diffuse  outer  electrons  than  for  the  concen- 
trated inner  electrons.  The  total  amount  of  radiation  T  scattered  in  any 
direction  by  the  electron  is  given  by  the  Thomson  formula.  A  fraction 
f  T  will  be  coherent,  and  will  be  calculated  by  the  laws  of  interference 
from  the  Schrodinger  distribution,  and  the  remainder,  (1  —  f2)T,  will 
be  incoherent.  Thus  the  total  coherent  radiation  will  be  F2T  where 
F  is  calculated  from  the  Schrodinger  distribution  for  the  whole  atom. 
An  amount  (N  —  f2)T  will  be  scattered  with  change  of  wavelength. 
Our  measurements  of  X-ray  diffraction,  if  this  be  true,  can  be  trusted 
to  measure  the  Schrodinger  continuous  distribution  of  electricity  in  the 
crystal  lattice. 

A  very  interesting  point  arises  in  the  case  where  characteristic  absorp- 
tion frequencies  of  the  scattering  atom  are  of  shorter  wavelength  than 
the  radiation  which  is  being  scattered.  In  general,  this  has  not  been 
so  when  careful  intensity  measurements  have  been  made  since  atoms  of 
low  atomic  weight  have  alone  been  investigated.  On  the  classical  analogy, 
we  would  expect  a  reversal  in  phase  of  the  scattered  radiation,  when  an 
electron  has  a  characteristic  frequency  greater  than  that  of  the  incident 
light.  A  fascinating53  experiment  by  Mark  and  Szilard  [31]  has  shown 
that  something  very  like  this  takes  place.  They  investigated  the  (111) 
and  (333)  reflections  of  RbBr,  which  are  extremely  weak  because  Rb  and 
Br  oppose  each  other  and  are  nearly  equal  in  atomic  number.  They  found 
that  these  'forbidden'  reflections  were  indeed  absent  when  the  soft  Cuk 
or  hard  Baj<  radiation  was  used,  but  that  Srx  radiation  was  appreciably 
reflected  (SrKct  A  0.871  A;54  absorption  edges  of  RbK  and  BrK,  0.814  A 


308  W.  L.  Bragg 

and  0.918  A).  The  atoms  are  differentiated  because  a  reversal  of  phase 
in  scattering  by  the  K  electrons  takes  place  in  the  one  case  and  not  in 
the  other. 

7.  —  The  analysis  of  atomic  structure  by  X-ray  intensity 

measurements 

It  has  been  seen  that  the  intensity  measurements  assign  the  correct 
number  of  electrons  to  each  atom  in  a  crystal,  and  indicate  a  spatial 
extension  of  the  atoms  of  the  right  order.  In  attempting  to  make  the 
further  step  of  deducing  the  arrangement  of  the  electrons  in  the  atom, 
the  limitations  of  the  method  begin  to  be  very  apparent. 

In  all  cases  where  analysis  has  been  attempted,  the  atom  has  been 
treated  as  spherically  symmetrical.  The  analysis  is  used  to  determine 
the  amount  of  scattering  matter  Undr  between  radii  r  and  r  +  dr.  All 
methods  of  analysis  give  a  distribution  of  the  same  general  type.  I  have 
given,  for  instance,  a  series  of  analyses  of  sodium  and  chlorine  in  Fig.  9. 
In  these  figures,  Un  is  plotted  as  ordinate  against  r  as  abscissa.  The 
total  area  of  the  curve  in  each  case  is  equal  to  the  number  of  electrons 
in  each  atom,  since  J0°°  Undr  =  N.  The  full-line  curves  are  our  original 
interpretations  of  the  distribution  in  sodium  and  chlorine,  based  on  our 
1921  figures.55  The  other  curves  are  the  interpretations  of  the  same 
or  closely  similar  sets  of  figures57  by  Havighurst  [32]  and  by  Compton 
(X-rays  and  Electrons)  using  the  Fourier  method  of  analysis. 

In  Fig.  9a  are  included  our  analysis  of  sodium  in  NaCl,  two  analyses 
by  Havighurst  of  sodium  in  NaCl  and  NaF  obtained  by  using  Duane's 
triple  Fourier  series,  and  an  analysis  of  our  figures58  by  Compton  using 
the  Fourier  formula  for  radial  distribution.  It  will  be  seen  that  the 
general  distribution  of  scattering  matter  and  the  limits  of  the  atom  are 
approximately  the  same  in  each  case.  The  same  holds  for  the  chlorine 
curves  in  Fig.  9b. 

The  interesting  point  which  is  raised  is  the  reality  of  the  humps  which 
are  shown  by  the  Fourier  analysis.  We  obtained  similar  humps  in  our 
analysis  by  means  of  shells  but  doubted  their  reality  because  we  found 
that  if  we  smoothed  them  out  and  recalculated  the  F  curve,  it  agreed 
with  the  observed  curve  within  the  limits  of  experimental  error.  The 
technique  of  measurement  has  greatly  improved  since  then,  and  it  would 
even  appear  from  later  results  that  we  over-estimated  the  possible  errors 
of  our  first  determinations  of  F.  It  is  obvious,  however,  that  great  care 
must  still  be  taken  in  basing  conclusions  on  the  finer  details  shown  by  any 


The  intensity  of  X-ray  reflection 


309 


56 


Fig.  9. 


method  of  analysis.  The  formula  which  is  used  in  the  Fourier  analysis, 

Airr       2nFn  2nnr 

U„  =          >   sin   , 

a  a  a 

is  one  which  converges  very  slowly,  since  the  successive  coefficients  Fn 
are  multiplied  by  n.  The  observed  F  curve  must  be  extrapolated  to  a 
point  when  F  is  supposed  to  fall  to  zero,  and  the  precise  form  of  the 
curve  reacts  very  sensitively  to  the  way  in  which  this  extrapolation  is 
carried  out. 


310 


W.  L.  Bragg 


Fluorine 


James  and  Randall 


Q   O   O  Havighuist 


03        0£       09      OA       0.5       (M       0.7       as        03      1.0  I.I 
Radius  in  Augstjom  units 


Fig.  10. 


The  curves  in  Fig.  10  will  illustrate  the  extent  to  which  the  analysis 
can  be  considered  to  give  us  information  about  the  actual  atomic  distri- 
bution. In  Fig.  10a  the  curve  shows  the  F  values  for  fluorine  obtained  by 
James  and  Randall  [17].  The  circles  are  points  obtained59  by  Havighurst 
from  measurements  on  CaF,  LiF,  NaF;60  it  will  be  seen  that  the  two  sets 
of  experimental  data  are  in  very  satisfactory  agreement.  In  Fig.  10b  I 
have  shown  on  the  one  hand  Havighurst's  interpretations  of  the  F  curve 
drawn  through  his  points,  and  on  the  other  an  analysis  carried  out  by 


The  intensity  of  X-ray  reflection 


311 


Sodium 


OA      C6      Q&       15        \2      U       i£        Ifi        E-0  2,1 
Radius  ill  Angstrom  unite 

w 

Chlorine 


B.J.B. 

Heviicburet  Si  Compton 

Pauling,  Schrodinger  model 
Thotnus'  model 


Radius  in  Angstrom  units 


Fig.  11 


62 


Claassen  [16]  of  James  and  Randall's  using  the  Fourier  method.  The 
distributions  are  the  same  in  their  main  outlines,  but  the  peaks  occur  in 
quite  different  places. 

Compton  (X-rays  and  Electrons,  p.  167)  in  discussing  his  diagrams  of 
radial  distribution  has  remarked  that  slight  differences  in  the  F  curves 
lead  to  wide  differences  in  details  of  the  curves,  and  that  too  much 
confidence  should  not  be  placed  on  these  details.  Havighurst  [32]  dis- 
cusses the  significance  of  the  analysis  very  fully  in  his  paper  on  electron 
distribution  in  the  atoms.  Our  data  are  not  yet  sufficiently  accurate  or 
extensive.  Nevertheless,  we  are  so  near  to  attaining  an  accuracy  of  a 


312 


W.  L.  Bragg 


satisfactory  order,  and  the  results  of  the  analysis  seem  to  indicate  so 
clearly  its  fundamental  correctness,  that  it  appears  to  be  well  worth 
while  to  pursue  enquiry  further.  Work  with  shorter  wavelengths,  and  at 
low  temperatures,  when  heat  motion  is  small  and  a  large  range  of  F 
values  can  be  measured,  should  yield  us  accurate  pictures  of  the  atomic 
structure  itself.  Given  accurate  data,61  the  Fourier  method  of  analysis 
provides  a  direct  way  of  utilising  them. 

The  radial  distribution  of  scattering  power  outlined  in  this  way  is  in 
general  agreement  with  any  reasonable  atomic  model.  We  have  seen, 
in  particular,  that  the  F  curves,  and  therefore  the  radial  distributions, 
of  Thomas'  model63  are  in  approximate  accord  with  those  actually  ob- 
served. If  it  is  true  that  the  scattering  of  coherent  radiation  is  to  be 
calculated  in  all  cases  by  the  Schrodinger  density  distribution,  we  should 
test  our  model  against  this  distribution. 

An  interesting  attempt  along  these  lines  has  been  recently  made  by 
Pauling  [33].  He  has  used  certain  simplifying  assumptions  to  obtain  an 
approximate  Schrodinger  density-distribution  for  many-electron  atoms. 
I  have  shown  in  Fig.  11  four  sets  of  curves.  The  radial  electron  distribu- 
tions deduced  by  Havighurst  and  by  Compton  are  shown  as  one  curve 
since  they  are  very  similar.  The  figure  shows  also  our  first  analysis  of 
electron  distribution.  Matched  against  these  are  plotted  the  generalised 
distribution  of  the  Thomas  model,  and  the  Schrodinger  density  distri- 
bution calculated  by  Pauling. 

We  have  obviously  not  yet  reached  a  point  when  we  can  be  satisfied 
with  the  agreement  between  theory  and  experiment,  yet  the  success 
attained  so  far  is  a  distinct  encouragement  to  further  investigation. 

8.  —  The  refraction  of  X-rays 

At  Professor  Lorentz's64  suggestion  I  have  added  a  very  brief  note  on  the 
refraction  of  X-rays,  since  the  phenomenon  is  so  intimately  connected 
with  the  question  of  intensity  of  reflection  and  scattering,  and  is  another 
example  of  the  successful  application  of  classical  laws.  The  diffraction 
phenomenon  dealt  with  above  (intensity  of  reflection)  arises  from  the 
scattering  of  coherent  radiation  in  all  directions  by  the  atoms  of  a  crystal. 
The  refractive  index  may  be  considered  as  being  due  to  the  scattering 
in  the  forward  direction  of  coherent  radiation,  which  interferes  with  the 
primary  beam.  The  arrangement  of  the  scattering  matter  plays  no  part, 
so  that  the  body  may  be  crystalline  or  amorphous.  The  measurement  of 


The  intensity  of  X-ray  reflection 


313 


the  refractive  index  is  thus  a  direct  measure  of  the  amount  of  coherent 
radiation  scattered  in  the  forward  direction  of  the  incident  beam. 

1.  Darwin  [2]  appears  to  have  been  first  in  pointing  out  that  theory 
assigns  a  refractive  index  for  X-rays  differing  from  unity  by  about  one 
part  in  a  million.  He  predicted  that  a  very  slight  departure  from  the  law 
of  reflection 

n\  =  2d  sin  90 

would  be  found,  the  actual  angle  9  being  given  by  Darwin's  formula 

sin  0  cos  0 

Ewald's  [34]  independent  treatment  of  X-ray  reflection  leads  to  an  equi- 
valent result,  though  the  problem  is  approached  along  quite  different 
lines. 

As  is  well  known,  the  first  experimental  evidence  of  an  index  of  refrac- 
tion was  found  in  a  departure  from  the  reflection  laws.  Stenstrom  [35] 
observed  differences  in  the  apparent  wavelength  of  soft  X-rays  (3  A)  as 
measured  in  the  different  orders,  which  were  explained  by  Ewald's  laws 
of  X-ray  reflection.  The  increased  accuracy  of  X-ray  spectroscopy  has 
shown  that  similar  deviations  from  the  simple  law  of  reflection  exist  for 
harder  rays,  though  the  deviations  are  much  smaller  than  in  the  ordinary 
X-ray  region.65  Thus  the  deviations  have  been  detected  for  hard  rays 
by  Duane  and  Patterson  [36]  and  by  Siegbahn  and  Hjalmar  [37].  It  is 
difficult  to  measure  the  refractive  index  by  means  of  these  deviations  in 
the  ordinary  way,  since  they  are  so  small,  but  Davis  [38,  39]  developed 
a  very  ingenious  way  of  greatly  increasing  the  effect.  A  crystal  is  ground 
so  that  the  rays  reflected  by  the  atomic  planes  enter  or  leave  a  face  at  a 
very  fine  glancing  angle,  and  thus  suffer  a  comparatively  great  deflection. 

Compton  [40]  discovered  the  total  reflection  of  X-rays,  and  measured 
the  index  of  refraction  in  this  way.  The  refractive  index  is  slightly  less 
than  unity,  hence  X-rays  falling  at  a  very  fine  glancing  angle  on  a  plane 
surface  of  a  body  are  totally  reflected,  none  of  the  radiation  passing 
into  the  body.  Compton  showed  that,  although  the  refractive  index  is  so 
nearly  unity,  yet  the  critical  glancing  angle  is  quite  appreciable. 

Finally,  the  direct  effect  of  refraction  by  a  prism  has  been  observed 
by  Larsson,  Siegbahn  and  Waller  [41].  X-rays  entered  one  face  of  a  glass 
prism  at  a  very  fine  glancing  angle,  and  suffered  a  measurable  deflection. 
They  obtained  in  this  way  a  dispersion  spectrum  of  X-rays. 


314 


W.  L.  Bragg 


2.  In  all  cases  where  the  frequency  of  the  X-radiation  is  great  compa- 
red with  any  frequency  characteristic  of  the  atom,  the  refractive  index 
measured  by  any  of  these  methods  is  in  close  accord66  with  the  formula 


27T77W2 

where  n  is  the  number  of  electrons  per  unit  volume  in  the  body,  e 
and  to  are  the  electronic  constants,  and  v  the  frequency  of  the  incident 
radiation.  The  formula  follows  directly  from  the  classical  Drude-Lorentz 
theory  of  dispersion,  in  the  limiting  case  where  the  frequency  of  the 
radiation  is  large  compared  with  the  'free  periods'  of  the  electrons  in  the 
atom.  It  can  be  put  in  the  form  [42]67 

1-^  =  2.71  x  1(T6^A2  , 

where  A  is  the  wavelength  in  Angstrom  units  of  the  incident  radiation, 
p  the  density  of  the  substance,  Z  and  A  the  average  atomic  number  and 
atomic  weight  of  its  constituents  (for  all  light  atoms  Z/A  is  very  nearly 
0.5). 68  Expressed  in  this  form,  the  order  of  magnitude  of  1  —  /i  is  easily 
grasped.  The  critical  glancing  angle  9  for  total  reflection  is  given  by 

cos  0  =  /U  , 

whence 


Expressing  0  in  minutes  of  arc,  and  A  in  Angstrom  units  as  before, 

6  = 


Measurements  of  refractive  index  have  been  made  by  Compton  and  by 
Doan  using  the  method  of  total  reflection,  by  Davis,  Hatley  and  Nardroff 
using  reflection  in  a  crystal,  and  by  Larsson,  Siegbahn  and  Waller  with 
a  prism.  A  variety  of  substances  has  been  examined,  and  wavelengths 
between  0.5  and  2  A  have  been  used.  The  accuracy  of  the  experimental 
determination  of  1  —  /i  is  of  the  order  of  one  to  five  per  cent.  As  long  as 
the  critical  frequencies  of  the  atom  have  not  been  approached,  the  results 
have  agreed  with  the  above  formula  within  experimental  error.  Just  as  in 
the  measurements  of  intensity  of  reflection  the  F  curves  approach  a  limit 
at  small  angles  equal  to  the  number  of  electrons  in  the  atom,  so  these 
measurements  of  refractive  index  when  interpreted  by  classical  theory 
lead  to  a  very  accurate  numbering  of  the  electrons  in  the  scattering  units. 


The  intensity  of  X-ray  reflection 


315 


3.  A  highly  interesting  field  is  opened  up  by  the  measurements  of  refrac- 
tive index  for  wavelengths  in  the  neighbourhood  of  a  critical  frequency 
of  the  atom.  It  is  a  striking  fact  that  the  simple  dispersion  formula 


still  gives  values  for  the  refractive  index  agreeing  with  experiment  in 
this  region,  except  when  the  critical  frequency  is  very  closely  approached 
indeed.  Davis  and  von  Nardroff  reflected  Cukq  and  Cuk/3  X-rays69  from 
iron  pyrites,  and  found  that  the  refractive  indices  could  be  reproduced  by 
substituting  constants  in  the  formulae  corresponding  to  two  K  electrons 
in  iron  with  the  frequency  of  the  K  absorption  edge.70  R.  L.  Doan  [44]  has 
recently  made  a  series  of  measurements  by  the  total  reflection  method. 
His  accurate  data  support  the  conclusion  that  the  Drude-Lorentz  theory 
of  dispersion  represents  the  facts,  'not  only  in  regions  remote  from  the 
absorption  edge,71  but  also  in  some  instances  in  which  the  radiation 
approaches  the  natural  frequencies  of  certain  groups  of  electrons'.  The 
existence  of  two  K  electrons72  is  very  definitely  indicated.  Kallmann  and 
Mark  [43]  have  gone  more  deeply  into  the  form  of  the  dispersion  curve  in 
the  neighbourhood  of  the  critical  frequencies.  The  change  in  scattering 
power  of  an  atom  as  the  frequency  of  the  scattered  radiation  passes 
through  a  critical  value  is  of  course  another  aspect  of  this  anomalous 
dispersion;  the  experiment  of  Mark  and  Szilard  which  showed  this  effect 
has  been  described  above.  There  is  ample  evidence  that  measurements 
of  refractive  index  will  in  future  prove  to  be  a  most  fruitful  means  of 
investigating  the  response  of  the  atom  to  incident  radiation  of  frequency 
very  near  each  of  its  own  characteristic  frequencies. 


316 


W.  L.  Bragg 
Reference^ 


[I]  [W.  Friedrich,  P.  Knipping  and]  M.  v.  Laue,  Bayr.  Akad.  d.  Wiss. 
Math.  phys.  Kl.  (1912),  303. 

[2]  C.  G.  Darwin,  Phil.  Mag.,  27  (1914),  315,  675. 

[3]  P.  P.  Ewald,  Ann.  d.  Phys.,  54  ([1917]),  519. 

[4]  P.  Debye,  Ann.  d.  Phys.,  43  (1914),  49. 

[5]  W.  H.  Bragg,  Phil.  Mag.,  27  (1914),  881. 

[6]  W.  H.  Bragg,  Phil.  Trans.  Roy.  Soc.  [A],  215  (1915),  253. 

[7]  A.  H.  Compton,  Phys.  Rev.,  9  (1917),  29;  10  (1917),  95. 

[8]  W.  L.  Bragg,  R.  W.  James  and  C.  H.  Bosanquet,  Phil.  Mag.,  41 

(1921),  309;  42  (1921),  1;  44  (1922),  433. 

[9]  C.  G.  Darwin,  Phil.  Mag.,  43  (1922),  800. 

[10]  R.  J.  Havighurst,  Phys.  Rev.,  28  (1926),  n.  5,  869  and  882. 

[II]  L.  Harris,  S.  J.  Bates  and  D.  A.  Maclnnes,73  Phys.  Rev.,  28  (1926), 
235. 

[12]  J.  A.  Bearden,  Phys.  Rev.,  27  (1926),  796;  29  (1927),  20. 

[13]  Bergen  Davis  and  W.  M.  Stempel,  Phys.  Rev.,  [17]  (1921),  608. 

[14]  H.  Mark,  Naturwiss.,  13  (1925),  n.  49/50,  1042. 

[15]  L.  H.  Thomas,  Proc.  Camb.  Phil.  Soc,  23  (1927),  542. 

[16]  A.  Claassen,  Proc.  Phys.  Soc.  London,  38  [pt]  5  (1926),  482. 

[17]  R.  W.  James  and  J.  T.  Randall,  Phil.  Mag.  [(7)],  1  (1926),  1202. 

[18]  J.  A.  Wasastjerna,  Comm.  Fenn.,  2  (1925),  15. 

[19]  W.  L.  Bragg,  C.  G.  Darwin  and  R.  W.  James,  Phil.  Mag.    (7),  1 

(1926),  897. 

[20]  W.  Duane,  Proc.  Nat.  Acad.  Sci.,  11  (1925),  489. 

[21]  R.  J.  Havighurst,  Proc.  Nat.  Acad.  Sci.,  11  (1925),  502. 

[22]  W.  L.  Bragg  and  J.  West,  Roy.  Soc.  Proc.  A,  111  (1926),  691. 

[23]  [J.  M.]  Cork,  Phil.  Mag.  [(7),  4  (1927),  688]. 

[24]  I.  Waller,  Upsala  Univ.  Arsskr.  1925,  [11];  Ann.  d.  Phys.,  83  (1927), 
153. 

[25]  R.  W.  James  and  E.  Firth,  Roy.  Soc.  Proc.  [A,  117  (1927),  62]. 

[26]  [H.]  Kallmann  and  H.  Mark,  Zeit.  f.  Phys.,  26  (1926),  [n.]  2,  [120]. 

[27]  E.  J.  Williams,  Phil.  Mag.  [(7)],  2  (1926),  657. 

[28]  [G.  E.  M.]  Jauncey,  Phys.  Rev.,  29  (1927),  605. 

[29]  D.  R.  Hartree,  Phil.  Mag.,  50  (1925),  289. 

[30]  I.  Waller,  Nature,  [120]  (July  1927),  [155]. 

[31]  H.  Mark  and  L.  Szilard,  Zeit.  f.  Phys.,  33  (1925),  688. 


a  The  style  of  the  references  has  been  modernised  and  uniformised  (eds.). 


The  intensity  of  X-ray  reflection 


317 


[32]  R.  J.  Havighurst,  Phys.  Rev.,  29  (1927),  1. 

[33]  L.  Pauling,  Roy.  Soc.  Proc.  A,  114  (1927),  181. 

[34]  P.  P.  Ewald,  Phys.  Zeitsch.,  21  (1920),  617;  Zeitschr.  f.  Physik,  2 

(1920),  332. 

[35]  W.  Stenstrom,  Exper[imentelle]  Unters[uchungen]  d[er]  Rontgen- 
spektra.  Dissertation,  Lund  (1919). 

[36]  [W.]  Duane  and  [R.  A.]  Patterson,  Phys.  Rev.,  16  (1920),  [526].74 
[37]  M.  Siegbahn,  Spektroskopie  der  Rontgenstrahlen  [(Berlin:  Springer, 
1924)]. 

[38]  [C.  C.  Hatley  and  Bergen  Davis],  Phys.  Rev.,  23  (1924),  290. 75 
[39]  B[ergen]  Davis  and  R.  von  Nardroff,  Phys.  Rev.,  23  (1924),  291. 
[40]  A.  H.  Compton,  Phil.  Mag.,  45  (1923),  1121. 

[41]  [A.]  Larsson,  [M.]  Siegbahn  and  [I.]  Waller,  Naturwiss.,  12  ([1924]), 
1212. 

[42]  I.  Waller,  [Theoretische  Studien  zur]  Interferenz-  und  Dispersions- 
theorie  der  Rontgenstrahlen.  [Dissertation,  Upsala  (1925)]. 
[43]  H.  Kallmann  and  H.  Mark,  Ann.  d.  Physik,  82  (1927),  585. 
[44]  R.  L.  Doan,  Phil.  Mag.  [(7),  4  n.]  20  (1927),  [100]. 

A  very  complete  account  of  work  on  intensity  of  reflection  is  given 
by  Compton  in  X-rays  and  Electrons  and  by  Ewald  in  volume  24  of  the 
Handbuch  der  Physik  by  H.  Geiger  and  K.  Scheel,76  Aufbau  der  festen 
Materie  und  seine  Erforschung  durch  Rontgenstrahlen,  section  18. 


318 


W.  L.  Bragg 


Discussion  of  Mr  Bragg's  report 

Mr  Debye.  —  To  what  extent  can  you  conclude  that  there  exists  an 
energy  at  absolute  zero? 

Mr  Bragg.  —  Waller  and  James  have  recently  submitted  a  paper 
to  the  Royal  Society  in  which  they  discuss  the  relation  between  the 
influence  of  temperature  on  the  intensity  of  reflection  (Debye  effect)  and 
the  elastic  constants  of  a  crystal.  Using  the  experimentally  determined 
value  of  the  Debye  coefficient,  they  deduce  the  scattering  by  an  atom  at 
rest  from  the  scattering  by  the  atom  at  the  temperature  of  liquid  air  (86° 
abs.).  The  curve  deduced  for  the  scattering  by  a  perfectly  motionless 
atom  can  of  course  take  two  forms,  according  to  whether  or  not,  in 
interpreting  the  results  of  the  experiment,  one  assumes  the  existence  of 
an  energy  at  absolute  zero. 

If  one  assumes  the  existence  of  such  an  energy,  the  curve  deduced 
from  the  experimental  results  agrees  with  that  calculated  by  Hartree 
by  applying  Schrodinger's  mechanics.  The  agreement  is  really  very  good 
for  sodium  as  well  as  for  chlorine.  On  the  other  hand,  the  curve  that 
one  obtains  if  one  does  not  assume  any  energy  at  absolute  zero  deviates 
considerably  from  the  calculated  curve  by  an  amount  that  exceeds  the 
possible  experimental  error. 

If  these  experimental  result^  are  confirmed  by  new  experiments,  they 
provide  a  direct  and  convincing  proof  of  the  existence  of  an  energy  at 
absolute  zero. 

Mr  Debye.  —  Would  the  effect  not  be  larger  if  one  did  the  experi- 
ments with  diamond? 

Mr  Bragg.  —  In  the  case  of  diamond,  it  is  difficult  to  interpret 
the  results  obtained  using  a  single  crystal,  because  the  structure  is  very 
perfect  and  the  'extinction'  is  strong.  One  would  have  to  work  with 
diamond  powder.  But  I  cannot  say  if  it  would  be  easy  to  find  that  there 
exists  an  energy  at  absolute  zero  in  diamond;  I  should  consider  it  further. 

Mr  Fowler.  —  Here  is  how  Hartree  calculates  the  atomic  fields. 
Starting  from  Thomas'  atomic  field,  taken  as  a  first  approximation,  he 

a  Note  added  5  April  1928.  The  results  to  which  allusion  is  made  here  have  just 
been  published  in  detail  by  Messrs  James,  Waller  and  Hartree  in  a  paper  entitled: 
'An  investigation  into  the  existence  of  zero-point  energy  in  the  rock-salt  lattice  by 
an  X-ray  diffraction  method'  (Proc.  Roy.  Soc.  A,  118  (1928),  334). 


Discussion 


319 


calculates  the  Schrodinger  functions  for  an  electron  placed  in  this  field, 
then  the  density  of  charge  in  the  atom  corresponding  to  the  Schrodinger 
functions,  and  then  the  corresponding  atomic  field,  which  will  differ 
from  that  of  Thomas.  By  successive  approximations  one  modifies  the 
field  until  the  calculations  yield  the  field  which  served  as  a  starting 
point.  This  method  gives  very  good  values  for  the  levels  corresponding 
to  X-rays  and  to  visible  light,  and  leads  to  the  atom  that  Mr  Bragg 
considered  for  comparison  with  experiments. 

Mr  Heisenberg.  —  How  can  you  say  that  Hartree's  method  gives 
exact  results,  if  it  has  not  given  any  for  the  hydrogen  atom?  In  the  case 
of  hydrogen  the  Schrodinger  functions  must  be  calculated  with  the  aid 
of  his  differential  equation,  in  which  one  introduces  only  the  electric 
potential  due  to  the  nucleus.  One  would  not  obtain  correct  results  if 
one  added  to  this  potential  the  one  coming  from  a  charge  distribution 
by  which  one  had  replaced  the  electron.  One  may  then  obtain  exact 
results  only  by  taking  the  charge  density  of  all  the  electrons,  except 
the  one  whose  motion  one  wishes  to  calculate.  Hartree's  method  is 
certainly  very  useful  and  I  have  no  objection  to  it,  but  it  is  essentially 
an  approximation. 

Mr  Fowler.  —  I  may  add  to  what  I  have  just  said  that  Hartree  is 
always  careful  to  leave  out  the  field  of  the  electron  itself  in  each  state,  so 
that,  when  he  considers  an  L  electron,  for  example,  the  central  part  of 
the  field  of  the  whole  atom  is  diminished  by  the  field  of  an  L  electron,  as 
far  as  this  may  be  considered  as  central.  Hartree's  method  would  then  be 
entirely  exact  for  hydrogen  and  in  fact  he  has  shown  that  it  is  extremely 
close  to  being  exact  for  helium.  (One  finds  a  recent  theoretical  discussion 
of  Hartree's  method,  by  Gaunt,  in  Proc.  Cambr.  Phil.  Soc,  24  (1928), 
328.) 

Mr  Pauli.  —  In  my  opinion  one  must  not  perform  the  calculations, 
as  in  wave  mechanics,  by  considering  a  density  \tp(x,  y,  z)\2  in  three- 
dimensional  space,77  but  must  consider  a  density  in  several  dimensions 

\ip{xi,  j/i,  zi,       xN,  yN,  zN)\2  , 

which  depends  on  the  N  particles  in  the  atom.  For  sufficiently  short 
waves  the  intensity  of  coherent  scattered  radiation  is  then  proportional 


320 


W.  L.  Bragg 


to 


,7« 


i 


Xi,       zn)\  dx\  ...  dztq 


where  A  is  the  wavelength  of  the  incident  radiation,  nu  a  unit  vector  in 
the  direction  of  propagation,  and  ru  the  corresponding  unit  vector  for 
the  scattered  radiation;  the  sum  must  be  taken  over  all  the  particles. 
The  result  that  one  obtains  by  assuming  a  three-dimensional  density 
cannot  be  rigorously  exact;  it  can  only  be  so  to  a  certain  degree  of 
approximation. 

Mr  Lorentz.  —  How  have  you  calculated  the  scattering  of  radiation 
by  a  charge  distributed  over  a  region  comparable  to  the  volume  occupied 
by  the  atom? 

Mr  Bragg.  —  To  interpret  the  results  of  observation  as  produced  by 
an  average  distribution  of  the  scattering  material,  we  applied  J.  J.  Thom- 
son's classical  formula  for  the  amplitude  of  the  wave  scattered  by  a  single 
electron. 

Mr  Compton.  —  If  we  assume  that  there  is  always  a  constant 
ratio  between  the  charge  and  mass  of  the  electron,  the  result  of  the 
classical  calculation  of  reflection  by  a  crystal  is  exactly  the  same,  whether 
the  charge  and  mass  are  assumed  concentrated  in  particles  (electrons) 
or  distributed  irregularly  in  the  atom.  The  intensity  of  reflection  is 
determined  by  the  average  density  of  the  electric  charge  in  different 
parts  of  the  atom.  That  may  be  represented  either  by  the  probability 
that  a  point  charge  occupies  this  region  or  by  the  volume  density  of  an 
electric  charge  distributed  in  a  continuous  manner  through  this  region. 

Mr  Kramers.  —  The  use  that  one  may  make  of  the  simple  Thomas 
model  of  the  atom  in  the  search  for  the  laws  of  reflection  is  extremely 
interesting.  It  would  perhaps  not  be  superfluous  to  investigate  what 
result  would  be  obtained  for  the  electron  distribution  if,  instead  of 
restricting  oneself  to  considering  a  single  centre  of  attraction,  one  applied 
Thomas'  differential  equation  to  an  infinity  of  centres  distributed  as  in  a 
crystal  grating.  Has  anyone  already  tried  to  solve  the  problem  of  which 
Mr  Bragg  has  just  spoken,  of  the  calculation  of  the  general  distribution 
of  the  electronic  density  around  the  nucleus  of  a  heavy  atom,  in  the  case 


Discussion 


321 


where  there  are  many  nuclei,  as  in  a  crystal? 

Mr  Bragg.  —  No,  no  one  has  yet  attacked  this  problem,  which  I 
only  mentioned  because  it  is  interesting. 

Mr  Dirac.  —  Do  the  scattering  curves  depend  on  the  phase  relations 
between  the  oscillations  of  different  atoms? 

Mr  Bragg.  —  No,  because  the  results  of  our  experiments  give  only 
the  average  scattering  produced  in  each  direction  by  a  very  large  number 
of  atoms. 

Mr  Dirac.  —  What  would  happen  if  you  had  two  simple  oscillators 
performing  harmonic  vibrations?  Would  they  produce  a  different  scat- 
tering when  in  phase  than  when  out  of  phase? 

Mr  Born.  —  The  correct  answer  to  the  question  of  scattering  by  an 
atom  is  contained  in  the  remark  by  Mr  Pauli.  Strictly  speaking  there  is 
no  three-dimensional  charge  distribution  that  may  describe  exactly  how 
an  atom  behaves;  one  always  has  to  consider  the  total  configuration  of  all 
the  electrons  in  the  space  of  3n  dimensions.  A  model  in  three  dimensions 
only  ever  gives  a  more  or  less  crude  approximation. 

Mr  Kramers  asks  a  question  concerning  the  influence  of  the  Comp- 
ton  effect  on  the  scattering. 

Mr  Bragg.  —  I  have  already  said  something  on  that  subject  in  my 
reportQ  Assuming  a  model  of  the  atom  of  the  old  type,  Jauncey  and 
Williams  have  used  the  criterion  that  the  wavelength  is  modified  when 
the  recoil  of  the  scattering  electron  is  sufficient  to  take  it  entirely  outside 
the  atom.  Williams  was  the  first  to  apply  this  criterion  to  scattering 
curves  obtained  with  crystals.  He  pointed  out  that  while  the  speed  of  the 
recoil  electron  depends  on  both  the  scattering  angle  and  the  wavelength, 
any  criterion  one  uses  is  a  function  of  just  as  the  interference 

effects  depend  on  This  implies  that  the  existence  of  the  Compton 
effect  modifies  the  scattering  curve  such  that  we  can  always  assign  the 
same  scattering  curve  to  no  matter  what  type  of  atom,  whatever  the 


a  Cf.  Bragg's  report,  section  6  (eds). 


322 


W.  L.  Bragg 


wavelength  may  be. 

Mr  Fowler.  —  If  I  have  understood  properly,  Mr  Bragg  uses  theore- 
tical calculations  by  Waller  that  have  not  yet  been  published.  When  light 
is  scattered  by  an  atom  in  accordance  with  the  interpretation  given  by 
Mr  Waller  by  means  of  the  new  mechanics,  the  total  amount  of  scattered 
light  is  given  exactly  by  J.  J.  Thomson's  classical  formula  (except  for  very 
hard  7-rays) .  This  light  is  composed  of  the  coherent  scattered  radiation 
and  of  the  modified  light  (Compton  scattering).  In  the  theorem  of  the 
reflection  of  X-rays  only  the  coherent  scattered  light  must  be  used,  and 
indeed  it  is;  and  this  light  is  given  exactly  by  the  F  curves  like  those 
proposed  by  Hartree.  These  F  curves  for  atomic  scattering  are  obviously 
given  simply  by  the  classical  scattering  for  each  electron,  diminished  by 
interference. 

Mr  Bragg.  —  I  should  like  to  develop  Mr  Fowler's  remark  by  re- 
calling Waller  and  Wentzel's  conclusions  briefly  sketched  in  my  report. 
The  scattering  by  one  of  the  electrons  in  an  atom  partly  remains  the 
same  and  partly  is  modified.  Within  certain  limits  the  total  amount  of 
scattered  radiation  is  given  by  J.  J.  Thomson's  formula.  A  fraction  /2 
of  this  amount  is  not  modified,  /  being  a  coefficient  smaller  than  1, 
depending  on  the  interference  of  the  spatial  distribution  of  the  charge 
according  to  Schrodinger  and  calculated  according  to  the  classical  laws 
of  optics.  The  remaining  fraction  1  —  /2  is  modified.79 

Mr  Lorentz.  —  It  is,  without  doubt,  extremely  noteworthy  that  the 
total  scattering,  composed  of  two  parts  of  quite  different  origin,  agrees 
with  Thomson's  formula. 

Mr  Kramers  makes  two  remarks: 

1.  As  Mr  Bragg  has  pointed  out  the  importance  of  there  being  interest  in 
having  more  experimental  data  concerning  the  refrangibility  of  X-rays  in 
the  neighbourhood  of  the  absorption  limit,  I  should  like  to  draw  attention 
to  experiments  performed  recently  by  Mr  Prins  in  the  laboratory  of  Pro- 
fessor Coster  at  Groningen.  By  means  of  his  apparatus  (the  details  of  the 
experiments  and  the  results  obtained  are  described  in  a  paper  published 
recently  in  Zeitschrift  fur  Physik,  47  (1928),  [479]),  Mr  Prins  finds  in 
a  single  test  the  angle  of  total  reflection  corresponding  to  an  extended 
region  of  frequencies.  In  the  region  of  the  absorption  limit  of  the  metal, 


Discussion 


323 


he  finds  an  abnormal  effect,  which  consists  mainly  of  a  strong  decrease 
in  the  angle  of  total  reflection  on  the  side  of  the  absorption  limit  located 
towards  the  short  wavelengths.  This  effect  is  easily  explained  taking  into 
account  the  influence  of  absorption  on  the  total  reflection,  without  it 
being  necessary  to  enter  into  the  question  of  the  change  in  refrangibility 
of  the  X-rays.  In  fact,  the  absorption  may  be  described  by  considering 
the  refractive  index  n  as  a  complex  number,  whose  imaginary  part  is 
related  in  a  simple  manner  to  the  absorption  coefficient.  Introducing 
this  complex  value  for  n  in  the  well-known  formulas  of  Fresnel  for  the 
intensity  of  reflected  rays,  one  finds  that  the  sharp  limit  of  total  reflection 
disappears,  and  that  the  manner  in  which  the  intensity  of  reflected  rays 
depends  on  the  angle  of  incidence  is  such  that  the  experiment  must 
give  an  'effective  angle  of  total  reflection'  that  is  smaller  than  in  the 
case  where  there  is  no  absorption  and  that  decreases  as  the  absorption 
increases. 

According  to  the  atomic  theory  one  would  also  expect  to  find,  in 
the  region  of  the  absorption  limit,  anomalies  in  the  real  part  of  the 
refractive  index,  producing  a  similar  though  less  noticeable  decrease  of 
the  effective  angle  of  total  reflection  on  the  side  of  the  absorption  edge 
directed  towards  the  large  wavelengths.  Mr  Prins  has  not  yet  succeeded 
in  showing  that  the  experiments  really  demonstrate  this  effect  @ 

The  theory  of  these  anomalies  in  the  real  part  of  the  refractive  index 
constitutes  the  subject  of  my  second  remark. 

2.  Let  us  consider  plane  and  polarised  electromagnetic  waves,  in  which 
the  electric  force  can  be  represented  by  the  real  part  of  Ee2mut,  striking 
an  atom  which  for  further  simplicity  we  shall  assume  to  be  isotropic. 
The  waves  make  the  atom  behave  like  an  oscillating  dipole,  giving,  by 
expansion  in  a  Fourier  series,  a  term  with  frequency  v.  Let  us  represent 
this  term  by  the  real  part  of  Pe27rtut,  where  P  is  a  complex  vector  having 
the  same  direction  as  the  vector  E  to  which  it  is,  moreover,  proportional. 
If  we  set 

1=/  +  ^,  (1) 

where  /  and  g  are  real  functions  of  u,  the  real  and  imaginary  parts  of 
the  refractive  index  of  a  sample  of  matter  are  related  in  a  simple  way  to 
the  functions  /  and  g  of  the  atoms  contained  in  the  sample. 

Extending  the  domain  of  values  that  v  may  take  into  the  negative 

a  Continuing  his  research  Mr  Prins  has  established  (February  1928)  the  existence  of 
this  effect,  in  agreement  with  the  theory. 


324 


W.  L.  Bragg 


region  and  defining  /  as  an  even  function  of  u,  g  as  an  odd  function, 
one  easily  verifies  that  the  dispersion  formulas  of  Lorentz's  classical 
theory  and  also  those  of  modern  quantum  mechanics  are  equivalent  to 
the  formula 


where  the  sign  f  indicates  the  'principal'  value  of  the  integral. 

This  formula  can  easily  be  applied  to  atoms  showing  continuous  ab- 
sorption regions  and  is  equivalent  to  the  formulas  proposed  for  these 
cases  by  R.  de  Laer  Kronig  and  by  Mark  and  Kallmann.  There  is  hardly 
any  doubt  that  this  general  formula  may  be  derived  from  quantum 
mechanics,  if  one  duly  takes  into  account  the  absorption  of  radiation, 
basing  oneself  on  Dirac's  theory,  for  example. 

From  a  mathematical  point  of  view,  formula  (2)  gives  us  the  means 
to  construct  an  analytic  function  of  a  complex  variable  v  that  is  holo- 
morphic  below  the  real  axis  and  whose  real  part  takes  the  values  g{u') 
on  this  axis.  If  one  considers  v  as  a  real  variable,  the  integral  equation 
(2)  has  the  solution 


which  shows  that  the  imaginary  part  of  the  refractive  index  depends  on 
the  real  part  in  nearly  the  same  way  as  the  real  part  depends  on  the 
imaginary  part.  The  fact  that  the  analytic  function  /  of  the  complex 
variable  v ,  defined  by  (2)  for  the  lower  half  of  the  complex  plane,  has 
no  singularity  in  this  half-plane,  means  that  dispersion  phenomena, 
when  one  studies  them  by  means  of  waves  whose  amplitude  grows  in 
an  exponential  manner  (y  complex),  can  never  give  rise  to  singular 
behaviour  for  the  atoms. 

Mr  Compton.  —  The  measurements  of  refractive  indices  of  X-rays 
made  by  Doan  agree  better  with  the  Drude-Lorentz  formula  than  with 
the  expression  derived  by  Kronig  based  on  the  quantum  theory  of  di- 
spersion. 

Mr  DE  Broglie.  —  I  should  like  to  draw  attention  to  recent  ex- 
periments carried  out  by  Messrs  J.  Thibaud  and  A.  Soltan0  which 
touch  on  the  questions  raised  by  Mr  Bragg.  In  these  experiments  Messrs 


(3) 


a  C.  R.  Acad.  Sc.,  185  (1927),  642. 


Discussion 


325 


Thibaud  and  Soltan  measured,  by  the  tangent  grating  method,  the 
wavelength  of  a  certain  number  of  X-rays  in  the  domain  20  to  70  A. 
Some  of  these  wavelengths  had  already  been  determined  by  Mr  Dauvillier 
using  diffraction  by  fatty-acid  gratings.  Now,  comparing  the  results  of 
Dauvillier  with  those  of  Thibaud  and  Soltan,  one  notices  that  there  is 
a  systematic  discrepancy  between  them  that  increases  with  wavelength. 
Thus  for  the  Ka  line  of  boron,  Thibaud  and  Soltan  find  68  A,  while 
Dauvillier  had  found  73.5  A,  that  is,  a  difference  of  5.5  A.  This  systematic 
discrepancy  appears  to  be  due  to  the  increase  of  the  refractive  index 
with  wavelength.  The  index  does  not  actually  play  a  role  in  the  tangent 
grating  method,  while  it  distorts  in  a  systematic  way  the  results  obtained 
by  crystalline  diffraction  when  one  uses  the  Bragg  formula.  Starting  from 
the  difference  between  their  results  and  those  of  Mr  Dauvillier,  Messrs 
Thibaud  and  Soltan  have  calculated  the  value  of  the  refractive  index  of 
fatty  acids  around  70  A  and  found 

5  =  1-//=  10~2 

thereabouts.  This  agrees  well  with  a  law  of  the  form  5  =  KX2;  since  in  the 
ordinary  X-ray  domain  the  wavelengths  are  about  100  times  smaller,  5 
is  of  order  10~6.  One  could  object  that,  according  to  the  Drude-Lorentz 
law,  the  presence  of  K  discontinuities  of  oxygen,  nitrogen  and  carbon 
between  30  and  45  A  should  perturb  the  law  in  A2.  But  in  the  X-ray 
domain  the  validity  of  Drude's  law  is  doubtful,  and  if  one  uses  in  its  place 
the  formula  proposed  by  Kallmann  and  Marlfl  the  agreement  with  the 
experimental  results  is  very  good.  Let  us  note  finally  that  the  existence 
of  an  index  appreciably  different  from  1  can  contribute  to  explaining  why 
large- wavelength  lines,  obtained  with  a  fatty-acid  grating,  are  broad  and 
spread  out. 

Mr  Lorentz  makes  a  remark  concerning  the  refractive  index  of  a 
crystal  for  Rontgen  rays  and  the  deviations  from  the  Bragg  law.  It  is 
clear  that,  according  to  the  classical  theory,  the  index  must  be  less  than 
unity,  because  the  electrons  contained  in  the  atoms  have  eigenfrequencies 
smaller  than  the  frequency  of  the  rays,  which  gives  rise  to  a  speed  of 
propagation  greater  than  c.  But  in  order  to  speak  of  this  speed,  one  must 
adopt  the  macroscopic  point  of  view,  abstracting  away  the  molecular 
discontinuity.  Now,  if  one  wishes  to  explain  Laue's  phenomenon  in  all 
its  details,  one  must  consider,  for  example,  the  action  of  the  vibrations 

a  Ann.  A.  Phys.,  82  (1927),  585. 


326 


W.  L.  Bragg 


excited  in  the  particles  of  a  crystallographic  layer  on  a  particle  of  a 
neighbouring  layer.  This  gives  rise  to  series  that  one  cannot  replace 
by  integrals.  It  is  for  this  reason  that  I  found  some  difficulty  in  the 
explanation  of  deviations  from  the  Bragg  law.80 

Mr  Debye.  —  Ewald  has  tried  to  do  similar  calculations. 

Mr  Lorentz.  —  It  is  very  interesting  to  note  that  with  Rontgen 
rays  one  finds,  in  the  vicinity  of  an  absorption  edge,  phenomena  similar 
to  those  that  in  classical  optics  are  produced  close  to  an  absorption 
band.  There  is,  however,  a  profound  difference  between  the  two  cases, 
the  absorption  edge  not  corresponding  to  a  frequency  that  really  exists 
in  the  particles. 


Notes  to  pp.  283-298 


327 


Notes  to  the  translation 

1  Here  and  in  a  few  other  places,  the  French  adds  (or  omits)  inverted 
commas. 

2  [reflexion  des  radiations  des  raies] 

3  [ne  fait  prevoir  aucun  ecart] 

4  The  French  edition  adds  'en  couches'  [in  layers]. 

5  Typescript:  'have  often  been  ....  it  has  led';  French  version:  'a  souvent 
ete  ....  elles  ont  conduit'. 

6  [ont  eu  confiance  dans  les  methodes  quantitatives] 

7  [portions] 

8  [sous  une  forme  plus  primitive] 

9  [il  soit  possible  de  les  trouver] 

10  [logiquement] 

11  [thermodynamique] 

12  Word  omitted  in  the  French  version. 

13  The  French  edition  adds  'Sir'. 

14  [les  donnees  obtenues  par  reflexion] 

15  Here  following  the  French  edition;  the  typescript  reads  'total  radiation'. 

16  Emphasis  omitted  in  the  French  edition. 

17  [servirent  a  comparer] 

18  The  French  omits  'of  reflection'. 

19  [deja  observee] 

20  [il  proposa  d'employer,  pour  Interpretation  des  mesures,  la  methode  de 
Fourier] 

21  [rapport] 

22  [ou] 

23  [Mc  Innes] 

24  [potassium] 

25  The  typescript  has  a  spurious  comma  after  'Bergen'. 

26  [a  l'aide  de  cristaux] 

27  [les  deux  constantes  electroniques] 

28  Here  and  in  some  other  instances,  the  French  renders  'single'  as  'simple'. 

29  ['facteur  atomique'] 

30  Not  printed  as  a  quotation  in  the  French  edition. 

31  choisies  simplement 

32  The  French  adds  'de  ses  experiences'. 

33  The  French  adds  'dans  ces  conditions'. 

34  This  is  indeed  a  quotation  from  p.  272  from  the  lecture  by  W.  H.  Bragg. 
The  typescript  has  a  comma  instead  of  the  closing  quotation  mark,  while 
the  French  edition  omits  the  opening  quotation  mark.  The  typescript  has 
a  spurious  denominator  'a'  instead  of  'ef'  in  the  second  and  third  terms 
(but  tacitly  corrects  another  typo  in  the  original). 

35  [dans  son  livre  sur  'les  rayons  X  et  les  electrons'] 

36  The  French  adds  'on  peut  proceder  de  la  fagon  inverse,  c'est-a  dire'. 

37  'Beryl.'  omitted  in  French  edition. 

38  The  French  edition  uses  superscripts  throughout. 

39  The  French  edition  omits  the  overbar  in  the  caption. 

40  [Wyckhoff] 

41  Word  omitted  in  French  edition. 

42  Again,  the  French  edition  omits  the  overbar  in  the  caption. 


328 


Notes  to  pp.  301-325 


43  [frappante] 

44  [son  livre  sur  les  rayons  X  et  les  electrons] 

45  [bien  que  les  figures  (sic)  sur  lesquelles  la  nouvelle  courbe  se  base  soient 
plus  exactes] 

46  Here  and  in  several  other  places,  the  French  adds  'Mile'. 

47  The  French  reads  'une  energie  au  zero  absolu  (energie  de  structure)'. 

48  Word  missing  in  the  French  edition. 

49  Bracket  printed  as  a  footnote  in  the  French  edition. 

50  [tout  pres  de  ce  point] 

51  [irregularites] 

52  [pour] 

53  [brillante] 

54  [A  SrKa  =  0.871A] 

55  [faites  d'apres  1921  figures] 

56  The  French  omits  'B.  J.  B.  figures  for  NaCl'. 

57  [figures] 

58  Again,  in  the  French,  the  false  friend  'figures'. 

59  [deduits] 

60  [CaFl,  LiFl,  NaFl] 

61  [Une  fois  que  nous  disposerons  de  donnees  precises] 

62  The  French  edition  omits  '&  Compton'  and  has  'Modele  de  Pauling  et 
Schrodinger'. 

63  The  French  translates  as  if  the  comma  were  after  'of  Thomas'  model' 
rather  than  before. 

64  [M.  Lorentz] 

65  The  typescript  reads  'much  smaller  in  the  ordinary  X-ray  region',  but 
given  the  context  the  text  should  be  amended  as  shown  (as  also  done  in 
the  French  version). 

66  [parfaitement  d'accord] 

67  Reference  omitted  in  the  French  edition. 

68  [J|  la  valeur  moyenne  du  rapport  du  nombre  atomique  au  poids  atomique 
pour  ses  divers  constituants  (pour  tous  les  atomes  legers  ce  rapport  est  a 
peu  pres  egal  a  0.5] 

69  [rayons] 

70  Typescript:  'of  the  K  adsorption  edge';  French  version:  'de  la 
discontinuity  K'. 

71  Typescript:  'adsorption  edge';  French:  'bord  d'absorption'. 

72  The  French  adds  'dans  la  pyrite'. 

73  French  edition:  'Mac  Innes'. 

74  Typescript  and  French  edition  both  have  '532'. 

75  Both  typescript  and  French  edition  give  this  reference  as  'B.  Davis  and 
C.  C.  Hatley'.  The  typescript  has  '291'. 

76  Authors  added  in  the  French  edition. 

77  Here  and  in  the  following  displayed  formula,  the  published  version  has 
square  brackets  instead  of  absolute  bars. 

78  Arrow  missing  on  rj,  in  the  published  volume. 

79  The  original  text  mistakenly  states  that  both  fractions  are  'not  modified'. 

80  The  mixing  of  first  and  third  person,  here  and  in  a  few  similar  instances 
throughout  the  discussions,  is  as  in  the  published  text. 


Disagreements  between  experiment  and  the 
electromagnetic  theory  of  radiation3 


By  Mr  Arthur  H.  COMPTON 


Introduction 

Professor  W.  L.  Bragg  has  just  discussed  a  whole  series  of  radiation 
phenomena  in  which  the  electromagnetic  theory  is  confirmed.  He  has 
even  dwelt  on  some  of  the  limiting  cases,  such  as  the  reflection  of  X-rays 
by  crystals,  in  which  the  electromagnetic  theory  of  radiation  gives  us,  at 
least  approximately,  a  correct  interpretation  of  the  facts,  although  there 
are  reasons  to  doubt  that  its  predictions  are  truly  exact.  I  have  been  left 
the  task  of  pleading  the  opposing  cause  to  that  of  the  electromagnetic 
theory  of  radiation,  seen  from  the  experimental  viewpoint. 

I  have  to  declare  from  the  outset  that  in  playing  this  role  of  the  accuser 
I  have  no  intention  of  diminishing  the  importance  of  the  electromagnetic 
theory  as  applied  to  a  great  variety  of  problemslH  It  is,  however,  only  by 

a  An  English  version  of  this  report  (Compton  1928)  was  published  in  the  Journal  of 
the  Franklin  Institute.  The  French  version  appears  to  be  essentially  a  translation 
of  the  English  paper  with  some  additions.  Whenever  there  are  no  discrepancies, 
we  reproduce  Compton's  own  English  (we  have  corrected  some  obvious  typos 
and  harmonised  some  of  the  spelling).  Interesting  variants  are  footnoted.  Other 
discrepancies  between  the  two  versions  are  reported  in  the  endnotes  (eds.). 

b  The  opening  has  been  translated  from  the  French  edition.  The  English  version  has 
the  following  different  opening  (eds.): 

During  the  last  few  years  it  has  become  increasingly  evident  that  the  classical 
electromagnetic  theory  of  radiation  is  incapable  of  accounting  for  certain  large 
classes  of  phenomena,  especially  those  concerned  with  the  interaction  between 
radiation  and  matter.  It  is  not  that  we  question  the  wave  character  of  light 
—  the  striking  successes  of  this  conception  in  explaining  polarisation  and 
interference  of  light  can  leave  no  doubt  that  radiation  has  the  characteristics 


329 


330 


A.  H.  Compton 


acquainting  ourselves  with  the  real  or  apparent1  failures  of  this  powerful 
theory  that  we  can  hope  to  develop  a  more  complete  theory  of  radiation 
which  will  describe  the  facts  as  we  know  them. 

The  more  serious  difficulties  which  present  themselves  in  connection 
with  the  theory  that  radiation  consists  of  electromagnetic  waves,  propa- 
gated through  space  in  accord  with  the  demands  of  Maxwell's  equations, 
may  be  classified  conveniently  under  five  heads:2 

(1)  Is  there  an  ether?  If  there  are  oscillations,  there  must  be  a  medium 
in  which  these  oscillations  are  produced.  Assuming  the  existence  of  such 
a  medium,  however,  one  encounters  great  difficulties. 

(2)  How  are  the  waves  produced?  The  classical  electrodynamics  requires 
as  a  source  of  an  electromagnetic  wave  an  oscillator  of  the  same  frequency 
as  that  of  the  waves  it  radiates.  Our  studies  of  spectra,3  however,  make 
it  appear  impossible  that  an  atom  should  contain  oscillators  of  the  same 
frequencies  as  the  emitted  rays. 

(3)  The  photoelectric  effect.  This  phenomenon  is  wholly  anomalous  when 
viewed  from  the  standpoint  of  waves. 

(4)  The  scattering  of  X-rays,  and  the  recoil  electrons,  phenomena  in 
which  we  find  gradually  increasing  departures  from  the  predictions  of 
the  classical  wave  theory  as  the  frequency  increases. 

(5)  Experiments  on  individual  interactions  between  quanta  of  radiation 
and  electrons.  If  the  results  of  the  experiments  of  this  type  are  reliable, 
they  seem  to  show  definitely  that  individual  quanta  of  radiation,  of 
energy  hv,  proceed  in  definite  directions. 

The  photon  hypothesis.'1  —  In  order  to  exhibit  more  clearly  the  diffi- 
culties with  the  classical  theory  of  radiation,  it  will  be  helpful  to  keep 
in  mind  the  suggestion  that5  light  consists  of  corpuscles.  We  need  not 
think  of  these  two  views  as  necessarily  alternative.  It  may  well  be  that 
the  two  conceptions  are  complementary.  Perhaps  the  corpuscle  is  related 

of  waves;  but  it  is  equally  true  that  certain  other  properties  of  radiation  are 
not  easily  interpreted  in  terms  of  waves.  The  power  of  the  electromagnetic 
theory  as  applied  to  a  great  variety  of  problems  of  radiation  is  too  well  known 
to  require  emphasis. 


Experiment  and  the  electromagnetic  theory 


331 


to  the  wave  in  somewhat  the  same  manner  that  the  molecule  is  related 
to  matter  in  bulk;  or  there  may  be  a  guiding  wave  which  directs  the 
corpuscles  which  carry  the  energy.  In  any  case,  the  phenomena  which 
we  have  just  mentioned  suggest  the  hypothesis  that  radiation  is  divisible 
into  units  possessing  energy  hv,  and  which  proceed  in  definite  directions 
with  momentum  hv/c.  This  is  obviously  similar  to  Newton's  old  concep- 
tion of  light  corpuscles.  It  was  revived  in  its  present  form  by  Professor 
Einstein,6  it  was  defended  under  the  name  of  the  'Neutron  Theory'  by  Sir 
William  [H.]  Bragg,  and  has  been  given  new  life  by  the  recent  discoveries 
associated  with  the  scattering  of  X-rays. 

In  referring  to  this  unit  of  radiation  I  shall  use  the  name  'photon', 
suggested  recently  by  G.  N.  Lewis  E  This  word  avoids  any  implication 
regarding  the  nature  of  the  unit,  as  contained  for  example  in  the  name 
'needle  ray'.  As  compared  with  the  terms  'radiation  quantum'  and  'light 
quant',7  this  name  has  the  advantages  of  brevity  and  of  avoiding  any 
implied  dependence  upon  the  much  more  general  quantum  mechanics  or 
quantum  theory  of  atomic  structure. 

Virtual  radiation.  —  Another  conception  of  the  nature  of  radiation  which 
it  will  be  desirable  to  compare  with  the  experiments  is  Bohr,  Kramers 
and  Slater's  important  theory  of  virtual  radiation^!  According  to  this 
theory,  an  atom  in  an  excited  state  is  continually  emitting  virtual  radi- 
ation, to  which  no  energy  characteristics  are  to  be  ascribed.  The  normal 
atoms  have  associated  with  them  virtual  oscillators,  of  the  frequencies 
corresponding  to  jumps  of  the  atom  to  all  of  the  stationary  states  of 
higher  energy.  The  virtual  radiation  may  be  thought  of  as  being  absorbed 
by  these  virtual  oscillators,  and  any  atom  which  has  a  virtual  oscillator 
absorbing  this  virtual  radiation  has  a  certain  probability  of  jumping 
suddenly  to  the  higher  state  of  energy  corresponding  to  the  frequency 
of  the  particular  virtual  oscillator.  On  the  average,  if  the  radiation  is 
completely  absorbed,  the  number  of  such  jumps  to  levels  of  higher  energy 
is  equal  to  the  number  of  emitting  atoms  which  pass  from  higher  to 
lower  states.  But  there  is  no  direct  connection  between  the  falling  of 
one  atom  from  a  higher  to  a  lower  state  and  a  corresponding  rise  of  a 
second  atom  from  a  lower  to  a  higher  state.  Thus  on  this  view  the  energy 
of  the  emitting  atoms  and  of  the  absorbing  atoms  is  only  statistically 
conserved. 

a  G.  N.  Lewis,  Nature,  [118],  [874]  (Dec.  18,  1926). 

b  N.  Bohr,  H.  A.  Kramers  and  J.  C.  Slater,  Phil.  Mag.,  47  (1924),  785;  Zeits.  f. 
Phys.,  24  (1924),  69. 


332 


A.  H.  Compton 


The  problem  of  the  ether8 

The  constancy  of  the  speed  of  radiation  of  different  wavelengths  has 
long  been  considered  as  one  of  the  most  powerful  arguments  in  favour 
of  the  wave  theory  of  light.  This  constancy  suggests  that  a  perturbation 
is  travelling  through  a  fixed  medium  in  space,  the  ether. 

If  experiments  like  those  by  Michelson  and  Morley's  were  to  show 
the  existence  of  a  relative  motion  with  respect  to  such  a  medium,  this 
argument  would  be  considerably  strengthened.  For  then  we  could  ima- 
gine light  as  having  a  speed  determined  with  reference  to  a  fixed  axis 
in  space.  But,  except  for  the  recent  and  quite  doubtful  experiments  by 
MillerQ  no-one  has  ever  detected  such  a  relative  motion.  We  thus  find 
ourselves  in  the  difficult  position  of  having  to  imagine  a  medium  in 
which  perturbations  travel  with  a  definite  speed,  not  with  reference  to 
a  fixed  system  of  axes,  but  with  reference  to  each  individual  observer, 
whatever  his  motion.  If  we  think  of  the  complex  properties  a  medium 
must  have  in  order  to  transmit  a  perturbation  in  this  way,  we  find  that 
the  medium  differs  so  considerably  from  the  simple  ether  from  which 
we  started  that  the  analogy  between  a  wave  in  such  a  medium  and  a 
pertubation  travelling  in  an  elastic  medium  is  very  distant.  It  is  true 
that  doubts  have  often  been  expressed  as  to  the  usefulness  of  retaining 
the  notion  of  the  ether.  Nevertheless,  if  light  is  truly  a  wave  motion,  in 
the  sense  of  Maxwell,  there  must  be  a  medium  in  order  to  transmit  this 
motion,  without  which  the  notion  of  wave  would  have  no  meaning.  This 
means  that,  instead  of  being  a  support  for  the  wave  theory,  the  concept 
of  the  ether  has  become  an  uncomfortable  burden  of  which  the  wave 
theory  has  been  unable  to  rid  itself. 

If,  on  the  other  hand,  we  accept  the  view  suggested  by  the  theory  of 
relativity,  in  which  for  the  motion  of  matter  or  energy  there  is  a  limiting 
speed  relative  to  the  observer,  it  is  not  surprising  to  find  a  form  of  energy 
that  moves  at  this  limiting  speed.  If  we  abandon  the  idea  of  an  ether,  it 
is  simpler  to  suppose  that  this  energy  moves  in  the  form  of  corpuscles 
rather  than  waves. 


a  D.  C.  Miller,  Nat.  Acad.  Sci.  Proc,  11  (1925),  306. 


Experiment  and  the  electromagnetic  theory 


333 


The  emission  of  radiation 

When  we  trace  a  sound  to  its  origin,  we  find  it  coming  from  an  oscillator 
vibrating  with  the  frequency  of  the  sound  itself.  The  same  is  true  of 
electric  waves,  such  as  radio  waves,  where  the  source  of  the  radiation 
is  a  stream  of  electrons  oscillating  back  and  forth  in  a  wire.  But  when 
we  trace  a  light  ray  or  an  X-ray  back  to  its  origin,  we  fail  to  find  any 
oscillator  which  has  the  same  frequency  as  the  ray  itself.  The  more  com- 
plete our  knowledge  becomes  of  the  origin  of  spectrum  lines,  the  more 
clearly  we  see  that  if  we  are  to  assign  any  frequencies  to  the  electrons 
within  the  atoms,  these  frequencies  are  not  the  frequencies  of  the  emitted 
rays,  but  are  the  frequencies  associated  with  the  stationary  states  of  the 
atom.  This  result  cannot  be  reconciled  with  the  electromagnetic  theory 
of  radiation,  nor  has  any  mechanism  been  suggested  whereby  radiation 
of  one  frequency  can  be  excited  by  an  oscillator  of  another  frequency. 
The  wave  theory  of  radiation  is  thus  powerless  to  suggest  how  the  waves 
originate. 

The  origin  of  the  radiation  is  considerably  simpler  when  we  consider 
it  from  the  photon  viewpoint.  We  find  that  an  atom  changes  from  a 
stationary  state  of  one  energy  to  a  state  of  less  energy,  and  associated 
with  this  change  radiation  is  emitted.  What  is  simpler  than  to  suppose 
that  the  energy  lost  by  the  atom  is  radiated  away  as  a  single  photon?  It 
is  on  this  view  unnecessary  to  say  anything  regarding  the  frequency  of 
the  radiation.  We  are  concerned  only  with  the  energy  of  the  photon,  its 
direction  of  emission,  and  its  state  of  polarisation. 

The  problem  of  the  emission  of  radiation  takes  an  especially  intere- 
sting form  when  we  consider  the  production  of  the  continuous  X-ray 
spectrum@  Experiment  shows  that  both  the  intensity  and  the  average 
frequency  of  the  X-rays  emitted  at  angles  less  than  90  degrees  with  the 
cathode-ray  stream  are  greater  than  at  angles  greater  than  90  degrees. 
This  is  just  what  we  should  expect  due  to  the  Doppler  effect  if  the  X-rays 
are  emitted  by  a  radiator  moving  in  the  direction  of  the  cathode  rays.  In 
order  to  account  for  the  observed  dissymmetry  between  the  rays  in  the 
forward  and  backward  directions,  the  particles  emitting  the  radiation 
must  be  moving  with  a  speed  of  the  order  of  25  per  cent  that  of  light. 
This  means  that  the  emitting  particles  must  be  free  electrons,  since  it 
would  require  an  impossibly  large  energy  to  set  an  atom  into  motion 
with  such  a  speed. 

a  The  difficulty  here  discussed  was  first  emphasised  by  D.  L.  Webster,  Phys.  Rev., 
13  (1919),  303. 


334 


A.  H.  Compton 


But  it  will  be  recalled  that  the  continuous  X-ray  spectrum  has  a  sharp 
upper  limit.  Such  a  sharp  limit  is,  however,  possible  on  the  wave  theory 
only  in  case  the  rays  come  in  trains  of  waves  of  considerable  length,  so 
that  the  interference  between  the  waves  in  different  parts  of  the  train 
can  be  complete  at  small  glancing  angles  of  reflection  from  the  crystal. 
This  implies  that  the  oscillator  which  emits  the  rays  must  vibrate  back 
and  forth  with  constant  frequency  a  large  number  of  times  while  the  ray 
is  being  emitted.  Such  an  oscillation  might  be  imagined  for  an  electron 
within  an  atom;  but  it  is  impossible  for  an  electron  moving  through 
an  irregular  assemblage  of  atoms  with  a  speed  comparable  with  that  of 
light. 

Thus  the  Doppler  effect  in  the  primary  X-rays  demands  that  the  rays 
shall  be  emitted  by  rapidly  moving  electrons,  while  the  sharp  limit  to 
the  continuous  spectrum  requires  that  the  rays  be  emitted  by  an  electron 
bound  within  an  atom. 

The  only  possible  escape  from  this  dilemma  on  the  wave  theory  is 
to  suppose  that  the  electron  is  itself  capable  of  internal  oscillation  of 
such  a  character  as  to  emit  radiation.  This  would,  however,  introduce 
an  undesirable  complexity  into  our  conception  of  the  electron,  and  would 
ascribe  the  continuous  X-rays  to  an  origin  entirely  different  from  that  of 
other  known  sources  of  radiation. 

Here  again  the  photon  theory  affords  a  simple  solution.  It  is  a  con- 
sequence of  Ehrenfest's  adiabatic  principkjf]  that  photons  emitted  by  a 
moving  radiator  will  show  the  same  Doppler  effect  ^with  regard  to  both 
frequency  and  intensity,  as  does  a  beam  of  waves|j  But  if  we  suppose 
that  photons  are  radiated  by  the  moving  cathode  electrons,  the  energy 
of  each  photon  will  be  the  energy  lost  by  the  electron,  and  the  limit  of 
the  X-ray  spectrum  is  necessarily  reached  when  the  energy  of  the  photon 
is  equal  to  the  initial  energy  of  the  electron,  i.e.,  hv  =  eV.  In  this  case, 
if  we  consider  the  initial  state  as  an  electron  approaching  an  atom  with 
large  kinetic  energy  and  the  final  state  as  the  electron  leaving  the  atom 
with  a  smaller  kinetic  energy,  we  see  that  the  emission  of  the  continuous 
X-ray  spectrum  is  the  same  kind  of  event  as  the  emission  of  any  other 
type  of  radiation. 

a  The  adiabatic  principle  consists  in  the  following.  Since  for  a  quantised  quantity 
there  should  be  no  quantum  jumps  induced  by  an  infinitely  slowly  varying 
external  force  (in  this  case,  one  that  gently  accelerates  a  radiator),  there  is  an 
analogy  between  these  quantities  and  the  classical  adiabatic  invariants.  Ehrenfest 
(1917)  accordingly  formulated  a  principle  identifying  the  classical  quantities  to  be 
quantised  as  the  adiabatic  invariants  of  a  system  (eds.). 

b  Cf.,  e.g.,  A.  H.  Compton,  Phys.  Rev.,  21  (1923),  483. 


Experiment  and  the  electromagnetic  theory 


335 


Absorption  of  radiation.  —  According  to  the  photon  theory,  absorption 
occurs  when  a  photon  meets  an  atom  and  imparts  its  energy  to  the  atom. 
The  atom  is  thereby  raised  to  a  stationary  state  of  higher  energy  — 
precisely  the  reverse  of  the  emission  process. 

On  the  wave  theory,  absorption  is  necessarily  a  continuous  process,  if 
we  admit  the  conservation  of  energy,  since  on  no  part  of  the  wave  front  is 
there  enough  energy  available  to  change  the  atom  suddenly  from  a  state 
of  low  energy  to  a  state  of  higher  energy.  What  evidence  we  have  is, 
however,  strongly  against  the  atom  having  for  any  considerable  length 
of  time  an  energy  intermediate  between  two  stationary  states;  and  if  such 
intermediate  states  cannot  exist,  the  gradual  absorption  of  radiation  is 
not  possible.  Thus  the  absorption  of  energy  from  waves9  is  irreconcilable 
with  the  conception  of  stationary  states. 

We  have  seen  that  on  the  theory  of  virtual  radiation  the  energy  of 
the  emitting  atoms  and  of  the  absorbing  atoms  is  only  statistically 
conserved.  There  is  according  to  this  view  therefore  no  difficulty  with 
supposing  that  the  absorbing  atom  suddenly  jumps  to  a  higher  level 
of  energy,  even  though  it  has  not  received  from  the  radiation  as  much 
energy  as  is  necessary  to  make  the  jump.  It  is  thus  possible  through 
virtual  oscillators  and  virtual  radiation  to  reconcile  the  wave  theory  of 
radiation  with  the  sudden  absorption  of  energy,  and  hence  to  retain  the 
idea  of  stationary  states. 


It  is  well  known  that  the  photon  hypothesis  was  introduced  by  Einstein 
to  account  for  the  photoelectric  effect  @  The  assumption  that  light  con- 
sists of  discrete  units  which  can  be  absorbed  by  atoms  only  as  units,  each 
giving  rise  to  a  photoelectron,  accounted  at  once  for  the  fact  that  the 
number  of  photoelectrons  is  proportional  to  the  intensity  of  the  light; 
and  the  assumption  that  the  energy  of  the  light  unit  is  equal  to  hv, 
where  h  is  Planck's  constant,  made  it  possible  to  predict  the  kinetic 
energy  with  which  the  photoelectrons  should  be  ejected,  as  expressed  by 
Einstein's  well-known  photoelectric  equation, 


The  photoelectric  effect 


(1) 


a  A.  Einstein,  Ann.  d.  Phys.,  17  (1905),  [132]. 


10 


336  A.  H.  Compton 

Seven  years  elapsed  before  experiments  by  Richardson  and  Comptorjf] 
and  by  Hughe^  showed  that  the  energy  of  the  emitted  electrons  was 
indeed  proportional  to  the  frequency  less  a  constant,12  and  that  the 
factor  of  proportionality  was  close  to  the  value  of  h  calculated  from 
Planck's  radiation  formula.  Millikan's  more  recent  precision  photoelec- 
tric experiments  with  the  alkali  metal^]  confirmed  the  identity  of  the 
constant  h  in  the  photoelectric  equation  with  that  in  Planck's  radiation 
formula.  De  Broglie's  beautiful  experimental  with  the  magnetic  spectro- 
graph showed  that  in  the  region  of  X-ray  frequencies  the  same  equation 
holds,  if  only  we  interpret  the  work  function  wp  as  the  work  required  to 
remove  the  electron  from  the  pth  energy  level  of  the  atom.  Thibaud  has 
made  use  of  this  resullB  in  comparing  the  velocities  of  the  photoelectrons 
ejected  by  7-rays  from  different  elements,  and  has  thus  shown  that  the 
photoelectric  equation  (TJ  holds  with  precision  even  for  /3-rays  of  the 
highest  speed.  Thus  from  light  of  frequency  so  low  that  it  is  barely  able 
to  eject  photoelectrons  from  metals  to  7-rays  that  eject  photoelectrons 
with  a  speed  almost  as  great  as  that  of  light,  the  photon  theory  expresses 
accurately  the  speed  of  the  photoelectrons. 

The  direction  in  which  the  photoelectrons  are  emitted  is  no  less  in- 
structive than  is  the  velocity.  Experiments  using  the  cloud  expansion 
method,  performed13  by  C.  T.  R.  Wilsorjf]  and  others]^  have  shown  that 
the  most  probable  direction  in  which  the  photoelectron  is  ejected  from 
an  atom  is  nearly  the  direction  of  the  electric  vector  of  the  incident 
wave,  but  with  an  appreciable  forward  component  to  its  motion.  There 
is,  however,  a  very  considerable  variation  in  the  direction  of  emission. 
For  example,  if  we  plot  the  number  of  photoelectrons  ejected  at  diffe- 
rent angles  with  the  primary  beam  we  find,  according  to  Auger,  the 
distribution  shown  in  Fig.  1. 

Each  of  these  curves,  taken  at  a  different  potential,  represents  the 
distribution  of  about  200  photoelectron  tracks.  It  will  be  seen  that  as  the 
potential  on  the  X-ray  tube  increases,  the  average  forward  component 
of  the  photoelectron's  motion  also  increases. 

When  polarised  X-rays  are  used,  there  is  a  strong  preponderance  of  the 

a  O.  W.  Richardson  and  K.  T.  Compton,  Phil.  Mag.,  24  (1912),  575. 

b  A.  L.  Hughes,  Phil.  Trans.  A,  212  (1912),  205. 11 

c  R.  A.  Millikan,  Phys.  Rev.,  7  (1916),  355. 

d  M.  de  Broglie,  Jour,  de  Phys.,  2  (1921),  265. 

e  J.  Thibaud,  C.  R.,  179  (1924),  165,  1053  and  1322. 

a  C.  T.  R.  Wilson,  Proc.  Roy.  Soc.  A,  104  (1923),  1. 

b  A.  H.  Compton,  Bull.  Natl.  Res.  Coun.,  No.  20  (1922),  25;  F.  W.  Bubb,  Phys. 
Rev.,  23  (1924),  137;  P.  Auger,  C.  R.,  178  (1924),  1535;  D.  H.  Loughridge,  Phys. 
Rev.,  26  (1925),  697;  F.  Kirchner,  Zeits.  f.  Phys.,  27  (1926),  385. 


Experiment  and  the  electromagnetic  theory 


337 


•X 


/ 


I. 


Fig.  1.  Longitudinal  distribution  of  photoelectrons  for  X-rays  of  three  different 
effective  wavelengths,  according  to  Auger. 

photoelectrons  in  or  near  the  plane  including  the  electric  vector  of  the 
incident  rays.  Thus  Fig.  2  shows  the  distribution  found  by  Bubb  of  the 
direction  of  the  photoelectrons  ejected  from  moist  air  when  traversed  by 
X-rays  that  have  been  polarised  by  scattering  at  right  angles  from  a  block 
of  paraffin.  Because  of  multiple  scattering  in  the  paraffin,  the  scattered 
rays  are  not  completely  polarised,  and  this  is  probably  sufficient  to 
account  for  the  fact  that  some  photoelectrons  appear  to  start  at  right 
angles  with  the  electric  vector.  This  effect  with  X-rays  is  doubtless 
similar  in  character  to  the  selective  photoelectric  effect  discovered  many 
years  ago  by  Pohl  and  Pringsheim,  in  which  the  number  of  electrons 
ejected  by  light  from  the  liquid  surface  of  sodium-potassium  alloy  is 
greater  when  the  electric  vector  is  in  a  plane  perpendicular  to  the  surface 
than  when  parallel  to  the  surface. 

Recent  experiments  have  shown  that  the  direction  in  which  the  pho- 
toelectrons are  ejected  by  X-rays  is  at  least  very  nearly  independent  of 
the  material  from  which  the  electrons  come0 

Can  electromagnetic  waves  produce  photoelectrons?  —  Before  discussing 
the  production  of  photoelectrons  from  the  standpoint  of  radiation  quan- 
ta, let  us  see  what  success  meets  the  attempt15  to  account  for  them 
on  the  basis  of  electromagnetic  waves.  The  fact  that  they  are  emitted 


a  E.  A.  Owen,  Proc.  Phys.  Soc,  30  (1918),  133;  Auger,  Kirchner,  Loughridge,  loc. 
cit.14 


338 


A.  H.  Compton 


Fig.  2.  Lateral  distribution  of  photoelectrons  for  incompletely  polarised  X-rays, 
according  to  Bubb. 

approximately  in  the  direction  of  the  electric  vector  would  suggest  that 
the  photoelectrons  are  ejected  by  the  direct  action  of  the  electric  field 
of  the  incident  rays.  If  this  were  the  case,  however,  we  should  expect 
the  speed  of  the  ejected  electrons  to  be  greater  for  greater  intensity 
of  radiation,  whereas  experiment  shows  that  for  the  same  wavelength 
intense  sunlight  ejects  an  electron  no  faster  than  does  the  feeble  light 
from  a  star.  Furthermore,  the  energy  available  from  the  electromagnetic 
wave  is  wholly  inadequate.  Thus  in  a  recent  experiment  performed  by 
Joffe  and  Dobronrawov0  X-rays  were  produced  by  the  impact  on  a  target 
of  104  to  105  electrons  per  second.  Since  on  the  electromagnetic  theory 
an  X-ray  pulse  is  of  the  order  of  103  waves  in  length  or  10-16  seconds 

a  A.  Joffe  and  N.  Dobronrawov,  Zeits.  f.  Phys.,  34,  889  (1925). 


Experiment  and  the  electromagnetic  theory 


339 


in  duration,  the  X-ray  pulses  must  have  followed  each  other  at  widely 
separated  intervals.  It  was  found,  however,  that  photoelectrons  were 
occasionally  ejected  from  a  bismuth  particle  which  subtended  a  solid 
angle  not  greater  than  10-5.  It  is  clearly  impossible  that  all  the  energy 
of  an  X-ray  pulse  which  has  spread  out  in  a  spherical  wave  should  spend 
itself  on  this  bismuth  particle.  Thus  on  the  wave  theory  the  ejection 
of  the  photoelectron,  which  has  almost  as  much  energy  as  the  original 
cathode  electron,  could  not  have  been  accomplished  by  a  single16  pulse. 
It  cannot  therefore  be  the  direct  action  of  the  electric  vector  of  the  wave, 
taken  in  the  usual  sense,17  which  has  ejected  the  electron. 

We  may  assume,  on  the  other  hand,  that  the  energy  is  gradually 
absorbed  in  the  bismuth  particle  of  Joffe's  experiment  until  an  amount 
hv  has  accumulated,  which  is  then  spent  in  ejecting  the  photoelectron. 
We  have  already  called  attention  to  the  fact  that  this  gradual  absorption 
hypothesis  implies  the  existence  of  stationary  states  in  the  atom  having 
infinitesimal  gradations  of  energy,  whereas  the  evidence  is  very  strong 
that  atoms  cannot  endure  except  in  certain  definitely  defined  stationary 
states.  But  new  difficulties  also  arise.  Why  do  the  photoelectrons  tend 
to  start  in  the  direction  of  the  electric  field  of  the  incident  wave?  If  we 
suppose  that  it  is  the  gradual  absorption  of  energy  from  a  wave  which 
liberates  the  electron,  why  does  there  exist  a  tendency  for  the  electron 
to  start  with  a  large  component  of  its  motion  in  a  forward  direction?18 
The  forward  impulse  due  to  the  radiation  pressure  as19  the  energy  is 
gradually  absorbed  will  be  transferred  to  the  atom  and  not  left  with 
[the]  absorbing  electron.  The  accumulation  hypothesis  is  thus  difficult 
to  defend. 

Photons  and  photoelectrons.  —  On  the  photon  theory  it  is  possible  to 
account  in  a  simple  manner  for  most  of  the  properties  of  the  photoelec- 
trons. We  have  seen  how  Einstein  was  able  to  predict  accurately  the 
velocity  of  the  photoelectrons,  assuming  only  that  energy  is  conserved 
when  a  photon  acts  on  an  electron.  In  order  to  account  for  the  direction  of 
emission  we  must  ascribe  to  the  photon  some  of  the  properties  of  an  elec- 
tromagnetic pulse.  Bubb  introduced  the  suggestion^  that  we  ascribe  to 
the  photon  a  vector  property  similar  to  the  electric  vector  of  an  electro- 
magnetic wave,  so  that  when  the  photon  traverses  an  atom  the  electrons 
and  the  nucleus  receive  impulses  in  opposite  directions  perpendicular 
to  the  direction  of  propagation.  Associated  with  this  electric  vector,  we 

a  F.  W.  Bubb,  Phys.  Rev.,  23  (1924),  137. 


340 


A.  H.  Compton 


should  also  expect  to  find  a  magnetic  vector.  Thus  if  an  electron  is  set 
in  motion  by  the  electric  vector  of  the  photon  at  right  angles  to  the 
direction  of  propagation,  the  magnetic  vector  of  the  photon  will  act 
on  the  moving  electron  in  the  direction  of  propagation.  This  is  strictly 
analogous  to  the  radiation  pressure  exerted  by  an  electromagnetic  wave 
on  an  electron  which  it  traverses,  and  means  that  the  forward  momentum 
of  the  absorbed  photon  is  transferred  to  the  photoelectron. 

In  the  simplest  case,  where  we  neglect  the  initial  momentum  of  the 
electron  in  its  orbital  motion  in  the  atom,  the  angle  between  the  direction 
of  the  incident  ray  and  the  direction  of  ejection  is  found  from  these 
assumptions  to  be 


where  a  =  7/A,  and  7  =  h/mc  =  0.0242  A.  The  quantity  a  is  small 
compared  with  unity,  except  for  very  hard  X-rays  and  7-rays.  Thus  for 
light,  equation  predicts  the  expulsion  of  photoelectrons  at  nearly  90 
degrees.  This  is  in  accord  with  the  rather  uncertain  data  which  have 
been  obtained  with  visible  and  ultra-violet  light  @ 

The  only  really  significant  test  of  this  result  is  in  its  application  to 
X-ray  photoelectrons.  In  Fig.  1  are  drawn  the  lines  61,  82  and  6*3  for  the 
three  curves,  at  the  angles  calculated  by  Auger  from  equation  It  will 
be  seen  that  they  fall  very  satisfactorily  in  the  direction  of  maximum 
emission  of  the  photoelectrons.  Similar  results  have  been  obtained  by 
other  investigators^  This  may  be  taken  as  proof  that  a  photon  imparts 
not  only  its  energy,  but  also  its  momentum  to  the  photoelectrons  U 

a  Cf.  A.  Partsch  and  W.  Hallwachs,  Ann.  d.  Phys.,  41  (1913),  247. 
b  W.  Bothe,  Zeits.  f.  Phys.,  26  (1925),  59;  F.  Kirchner,  Zeits.  f.  Phys.,  27  (1926), 
385.20 

c  The  English  version  includes  here  the  following  footnote.  Cf.  also  the  comments 
by  Bragg  on  p.  13561  and  the  ensuing  discussion  (eds.). 

Since  this  was  written,  experiments  by  [D.  H.]  Loughridge  {Phys.  Rev.,  30 
(1927),  [488])  have  been  published  which  show  a  forward  component  to  the 
photoelectron's  motion  which  seems  to  be  greater  than  that  predicted  by 
equation  |[2|).  Williams,  in  experiments  as  yet  unpublished,  finds  that  the 
forward  component  is  almost  twice  as  great  as  that  predicted  by  this  theory. 
These  results  indicate  that  the  mechanism  of  interaction  between  the  photon 
and  the  atom  must  be  more  complex  than  here  postulated.  The  fact  that 
the  forward  momentum  of  the  photoelectron  is  found  to  be  of  the  same 
order  of  magnitude  as  that  of  the  incident  photon,  however,  suggests  that  the 
momentum  of  the  photon  is  acquired  by  the  photoelectron,  while  an  additional 
forward  impulse  is  imparted  by  the  atom.  Thus  these  more  recent  experiments 


(2) 


Experiment  and  the  electromagnetic  theory  341 

HonestjQ  obliges  me  to  point  out  a  difficulty  that  arises  in  this  explana- 
tion of  the  motion  of  the  photoelectrons.  It  is  the  failure  of  the  attempts 
made  to  account  properly  for  the  fact  that  the  photoelectrons  are  emitted 
over  a  wide  range  of  angles  instead  of  in  a  definite  direction,  as  would 
be  suggested  by  the  calculation  just  outlined.  The  most  interesting  of 
these  attempts  is  that  of  Bubb0  who  takes  into  account  the  momentum 
of  the  electron  immediately  before  the  absorption  of  the  photon.  Bubb 
finds  a  dispersion  of  the  directions  of  emission  of  the  photoelectrons  of 
the  correct  order  of  magnitude,  but  which  is  larger  when  the  electron 
issues  from  a  heavy  atom  than  when  it  issues  from  a  light  one.  We 
have  seen,  however,  that  experiment  has  shown  this  dispersion  of  the 
directions  of  emission  to  be  notably  independent  of  the  element  from 
which  the  photoelectron  originates. 

Whatever  may  be  the  cause  of  the  dispersion  in  the  directions  of  moti- 
on of  the  photoelectrons,21  it  will  readily  be  seen  that  if  the  time  during 
which  the  photon  exerts  a  force  on  the  electron  is  comparable  with  the 
natural  period  of  the  electron22  in  the  atom,  the  impulse  imparted  to  the 
electron  will  be  transferred  in  part  to  the  positive  nucleus  about  which 
the  electron  is  moving.  The  fact  that  the  photoelectrons  are  ejected  with 
a  forward  component  equal,  within  the  limits  of  experimental  error,  to 
the  momentum  of  the  incident  photon23  means  that  no  appreciable  part 
of  the  photon's  momentum  is  spent  on  the  remainder  of  the  atom.  This 
can  only  be  the  case  if  the  time  of  action  of  the  photon  on  the  electron  is 
short  compared  with  the  time  of  revolution  of  the  electron  in  its  orbit  0 

also  support  the  view  that  the  photoelectron  acquires  both  the  energy  and  the 
momentum  of  the  photon. 

a  This  paragraph  is  present  only  in  the  French  edition.  The  corresponding  one  in 
the  English  edition  reads: 

If  the  angular  momentum  of  the  atomic  system  from  which  the  photoelectron 
is  ejected  is  to  be  conserved  when  acted  upon  by  the  radiation,  the  electron 
cannot  be  ejected  exactly  in  the  direction  of  9,  but  must  receive  an  impulse  in  a 
direction  determined  by  the  position  of  the  electron  in  the  atom  at  the  instant 
it  is  traversed  by  the  photon.*  Thus  we  should  probably  consider  the  electric 
vector  of  the  X-ray  wave  as  defining  merely  the  most  probable  direction  in 
which  the  impulse  should  be  imparted  to  the  electron.  This  is  doubtless  the 
chief  reason  why  the  photoelectrons  are  emitted  over  a  wide  range  of  angles 
instead  of  in  a  definite  direction,  as  would  be  suggested  by  the  calculation  just 
outlined. 

With  the  footnote:  *Cf.  A.  H.  Compton,  Phys.  Rev.,  [31]  (1928),  [59]  (eds.). 
b  F.  W.  Bubb,  Phil.  Mag.,  49  (1925),  824. 

a  The  English  edition  includes  the  further  sentence:  'Such  a  short  duration  of 


342 


A.  H.  Compton 


The  photoelectric  effect  and  virtual  radiation.  —  It  is  to  be  noted  that 
none  of  these  properties  of  the  photoelectron  is  inconsistent  with  the 
virtual  radiation  theory  of  Bohr,  Kramers  and  Slater.  The  difficulties 
which  applied  to  the  classical  wave  theory  do  not  apply  here,  since  the 
energy  and  momentum  are  conserved  only  statistically.  There  is  nothing 
in  this  theory,  however,  which  would  enable  us  to  predict  anything 
regarding  the  motion  of  the  photoelectrons.  The  degree  of  success  that 
has  attended  the  application  of  the  photon  hypothesis  to  the  motion  of 
these  electrons  has  come  directly  from  the  application  of  the  conservation 
principles  to  the  individual  action  of  a  photon  on  an  electron.  The  power 
of  these  principles  as  applied  to  this  case  is  surprising  if  the  assumption 
is  correct  that  they  are  only  statistically  valid. 


Phenomena  associated  with  the  scattering  of  X-rays 

As  is  now  well  known,  there  is  a  group  of  phenomena  associated  with 
the  scattering  of  X-rays  for  which  the  classical  wave  theory  of  radiation 
fails  to  account.  These  phenomena  may  be  considered  under  the  heads 
of:  (1)  The  change  of  wavelength  of  X-rays  due  to  scattering,  (2)  the 
intensity  of  scattered  X-rays,  and  (3)  the  recoil  electrons. 

The  earliest  experiments  on  secondary  X-rays  and  7-rays24  showed 
a  difference  in  the  penetrating  power  of  the  primary  and  the  secondary 
rays.  In  the  case  of  X-rays,  Barkla  and  his  collaborator^  showed  that  the 
secondary  rays  from  the  heavy  elements  consisted  largely  of  fluorescent 
radiations  characteristic  of  the  radiator,  and  that  it  was  the  presence  of 
these  softer  rays  which  was  chiefly  responsible  for  the  greater  absorption 
of  the  secondary  rays.  When  later  experimental  showed  a  measurable 
difference  in  penetration  even  for  light  elements  such  as  carbon,  from 
which  no  fluorescent  K  or  L  radiation  appears,  it  was  natural  to  ascrib^] 
this  difference  to  a  new  type  of  fluorescent  radiation,  similar  to  the  K  and 
L  types,  but  of  shorter  wavelength.  Careful  absorption  measurement^ 
failed,  however,  to  reveal  any  critical  absorption  limit  for  these  assumed 

interaction  is  a  natural  consequence  of  the  photon  conception  of  radiation,  but 
is  quite  contrary  to  the  consequences  of  the  electromagnetic  theory'  (eds.). 
a  C.  [G.]  Barkla  and  C.  A.  Sadler,  Phil.  Mag.,  16,  550  (1908). 26 
b  C.  A.  Sadler  and  P.  Mesham,  Phil.  Mag.,  24  (1912),  138;  J.  Laub,  Ann.  d.  Phys., 
46  (1915),  785. 

c  [C.  G.]  Barkla  and  [M.  P.]  White,  Phil.  Mag.,  34  (1917),  270;  J.  Laub,  Ann.  d. 

Phys.,  46  (1915),  785,  et  at. 
d  E.g.,  [F.  K.]  Richtmyer  and  [K.]  Grant,  Phys.  Rev.,  15  (1920),  547. 


Experiment  and  the  electromagnetic  theory 


343 


'J'  radiations  similar  to  those  corresponding  to  the  K  and  L  radiations. 
Moreover,  direct  spectroscopic  observation^  failed  to  reveal  the  exi- 
stence of  any  spectrum  lines26  under  conditions  for  which  the  supposed 
J-rays  should  appear.  It  thus  became  evident  that  the  softening  of  the 
secondary  X-rays  from  the  lighter  elements  was  due  to  a  different  kind 
of  process  than  the  softening  of  the  secondary  rays  from  heavy  elements 
where  fluorescent  X-rays  are  present. 

A  series  of  skilfully  devised  absorption  experiments  performed  by 
J.  A.  GrajH  showed,  on  the  other  hand,  that  both  in  the  case  of  7- 
rays  and  in  that  of  X-rays  an  increase  in  wavelength  accompanies  the 
scattering  of  the  rays  of  light  elements. 

It  was  at  this  stage  that  the  first  spectroscopic  investigations  of  the 
secondary  X-rays  from  light  elements  were  made@  According  to  the 
usual  electron  theory  of  scattering  it  is  obvious  that  the  scattered  rays 
will  be  of  the  same  frequency  as  the  forced  oscillations  of  the  electrons 
which  emit  them,  and  hence  will  be  identical  in  frequency  with  the 
primary  waves  which  set  the  electrons  in  motion.  Instead  of  showing 
scattered  rays  of  the  same  wavelength  as  the  primary  rays,  however, 
these  spectra  revealed  lines  in  the  secondary  rays  corresponding  to  those 
in  the  primary  beam,  but  with  each  line  displaced  slightly  toward  the 
longer  wavelengths. 

This  result  might  have  been  predicted  from  Gray's  absorption  meas- 
urements; but  the  spectrum  measurements  had  the  advantage  of  affor- 
ding a  quantitative  measurement  of  the  change  in  wavelength,  which 
gave  a  basis  for  its  theoretical  interpretation. 

The  spectroscopic  experiments  which  have  shown  this  change  in  wa- 
velength are  too  well  knowiJl  to  require  discussion.  The  interpretati- 
on of  the  wavelength  change  in  terms  of  photons  being  deflected  by 
individual27  electrons  and  imparting  a  part  of  their  energy  to  the  scatte- 
ring electrons  is  also  very  familiar.  For  purposes  of  discussion,  however, 
let  us  recall  that  when  we  consider  the  interaction  of  a  single  photon 
with  a  single  electron  the  principles  of  the  conservation  of  energy  and 
momentum  lead  u^|  to  the  result  that  the  change  in  wavelength  of  the 

a  E.g.,  [W.]  Duane  and  [T.]  Shimizu,  Phys.  Rev.,  13  (1919),  [289];  ibid.,  14  (1919), 
389. 

a  J.  A.  Gray,  Phil.  Mag.,  26  (1913),  611;  Jour.  Frank.  Inst.,  [190],  643  (Nov.  1920). 
b  A.  H.  Compton,  Bull.  Natl.  Res.  Coun.,  No.  20,  [18]  ([October]  1922);  Phys.  Rev., 
22  (1923),  409. 

c  Cf.,  e.g.,  A.  H.  Compton,  Phys.  Rev.,  22  (1923),  409;  P.  A.  Ross,  Proc.  Nat.  Acad., 
10  (1924),  304. 

d  A.  H.  Compton,  Phys.  Rev.,  [21]  (1923),  483;  P.  Debye,  Phys.  Zeits.,  24  (1923), 
161. 


344  A.  H.  Compton 

deflected  photon  is 

SX  =  — (1  -  costp)  ,  (3) 
mc 

where  ip  is  the  angle  through  which  the  photon  is  deflected.  The  electron 
at  the  same  time  recoils  from  the  photon  at  an  angle  of  9  given  by,28 

cot  6  =  —  (1  +  a)  tan-i/3  ;  (4) 

and  the  kinetic  energy  of  the  recoiling  electron  is, 

2a  cos2  6 

Skin  =  hv—  -2  2  2^  '  5 

(1  +  a)^  —  or  cos"* 

The  experiments  show  in  the  spectrum  of  the  scattered  rays  two  lines 
corresponding  to  each  line  of  the  primary  ray.  One  of  these  lines  is  of 
precisely  the  same  wavelength  as  the  primary  ray,  and  the  second  line, 
though  somewhat  broadened,  has  its  centre  of  gravity  displaced  by  the 
amount  predicted  by  equation  J3]) .  According  to  experiments  by  Kallman 
and  Marljfl  and  by  Sharp0  this  agreement  between  the  theoretical29  and 
the  observed  shift  is  precise  within  a  small  fraction  of  1  per  cent. 


The  recoil  electrons.  —  From  the  quantitative  agreement  between  the 
theoretical  and  the  observed  wavelengths  of  the  scattered  rays,  the  recoil 
electrons  predicted  by  the  photon  theory  of  scattering  were  looked  for 
with  some  confidence.30  When  this  theory  was  proposed,  there  was 
no  direct  evidence  for  the  existence  of  such  electrons,  though  indirect 
evidence  suggested  that  the  secondary  /3-rays  ejected  from  matter  by 
hard  7-rays  are  mostly  of  this  type.  Within  a  few  months  of  their 
prediction,  however,  C.  T.  R.  Wilson^  and  W.  Both^l  independently 
announced  their  discovery.  The  recoil  electrons  show  as  short  tracks, 
pointed  in  the  direction  of  the  primary  X-ray  beam,  mixed  among  the 
much  longer  tracks  due  to  the  photoelectrons  ejected  by  the  X-rays. 

Perhaps  the  most  convincing  reason  for  associating  these  short  tracks 
with  the  scattered  X-rays  comes  from  a  study  of  their  number.  Each 
photoelectron  in  a  cloud  photograph  represents  a  quantum  of  truly 
absorbed  X-ray  energy.  If  the  short  tracks  are  due  to  recoil  electrons, 
each  one  should  represent  the  scattering  of  a  photon.  Thus  the  ratio 
Nr/Np  of  the  number  of  short  tracks  to  the  number  of  long  tracks  should 

a  H.  Kallman  and  H.  Mark,  Naturwiss.,  13  (1925),  297. 
b  H.  M.  Sharp,  Phys.  Rev.,  26  (1925),  691. 
c  C.  T.  R.  Wilson,  Proc.  Roy.  Soc.  [A],  104  (1923),  1. 
d  W.  Bothe,  Zeits.  f.  Phys.,  16  (1923),  319. 


Experiment  and  the  electromagnetic  theory 


345 


be  the  same  as  the  ratio  cr/r  of  the  scattered  to  the  truly  absorbed 
energy31  when  the  X-rays  pass  through  air.  The  latter  ratio  is  known 
from  absorption  measurements,  and  the  former  ratio  can  be  determined 
by  counting  the  tracks  on  the  photographs.  The  satisfactory  agreement 
between  the  two  ratiofl  for  X-rays  of  different  wavelengths  means  that 
on  the  average  there  is  about  one  quantum  of  energy  scattered  for  each 
short  track  that  is  produced. 

This  result  is  in  itself  contrary  to  the  predictions  of  the  classical  wave 
theory,  since  on  this  basis  all  the  energy  spent  on  a  free  electron  (except 
the  insignificant  effect  of  radiation  pressure)  should  reappear  as  scattered 
X-rays.  In  these  experiments,  on  the  contrary,  5  or  10  per  cent  as  much 
energy  appears  in  the  motion  of  the  recoil  electrons  as  appears  in  the 
scattered  X-rays. 

That  these  short  tracks  associated  with  the  scattered  X-rays  corre- 
spond to  the  recoil  electrons  predicted  by  the  photon  theory  of  scat- 
tering becomes  clear  from  a  study  of  their  energies.  The  energy  of  the 
electron  which  produces  a  track  can  be  calculated  from  the  range  of  the 
track.  The  ranges  of  tracks  which  start  in  different  directions  have  been 
studied^  using  primary  X-rays  of  different  wavelengths,  with  the  result 
that  equation  <[5j) 33  has  been  satisfactorily  verified. 

In  view  of  the  fact  that  electrons  of  this  type  were  unknown  at  the  time 
the  photon  theory  of  scattering  was  presented,  their  existence,  and  the 
close  agreement  with  the  predictions  as  to  their  number,  direction  and 
velocity,  supply  strong  evidence  in  favour  of  the  fundamental  hypotheses 
of  the  theory. 

Interpretation  of  these  experiments.  —  It  is  impossible  to  account  for 
scattered  rays  of  altered  frequency,  and  for  the  existence  of  the  recoil 
electrons,  if  we  assume  that  X-rays  consist  of  electromagnetic  waves 
in  the  usual  sense.  Yet  some  progress  has  been  made  on  the  basis  of 
semi-classical  theories.  It  is  an  interesting  fact  that  the  wavelength  of 
the  scattered  ray  according  to  equation  (J3j 3  varies  with  the  angle  just 
as  one  would  expect  from  a  Doppler  effect  if  the  rays  are  scattered  from 
an  electron  moving  in  the  direction  of  the  primary  beam.  Moreover, 
the  velocity  that  must  be  assigned  to  the  electron  in  order  to  give  the 
proper  magnitude  to  the  change  of  wavelength  is  that  which  the  electron 
would  acquire  by  radiation  pressure  if  it  should  absorb  a  quantum  of  the 

a  A.  H.  Compton  and  A.  W.  Simon,  Phys.  Rev.,  25  (1925),  306;  J.  M.  Nuttall  and 

E.  J.  Williams,  Manchester  Memoirs,  70  (1926),  1. 
a  Compton  and  Simon,  loc.  cit.32 


346  A.  H.  Compton 

incident  rays.  Several  writer^  have  therefore  assumed  that  an  electron 
takes  from  the  incident  beam  a  whole  quantum  of  the  incident  radiation, 
and  then  emits  this  energy  as  a  spherical  wave  while  moving  forward36 
with  high  velocity. 

This  conception  that  the  radiation  occurs  in  spherical  waves,  and  that 
the  scattering  electron  can  nevertheless  acquire  suddenly  the  impulses 
from  a  whole  quantum  of  incident  radiation  is  inconsistent  with  the  prin- 
ciple of  energy  conservation.  But  there  is  the  more  serious  experimental 
difficulty  that  this  theory  predicts  recoil  electrons  all  moving  in  the  same 
direction  and  with  the  same  velocity.  The  experiments  show,  on  the 
other  hand,  a  variety  of  directions  and  velocities,  with  the  velocity  and 
direction  correlated  as  demanded  by  the  photon  hypothesis.  Moreover, 
the  maximum  range  of  the  recoil  electrons,  though  in  agreement  with 
the  predictions  of  the  photon  theory,  is  found  to  be  about  four  times  as 
great  as  that  predicted  by  the  semi-classical  theory. 

There  is  nothing  in  these  experiments,  as  far  as  we  have  described 
them,  which  is  inconsistent  with  the  idea  of  virtual  oscillators  continu- 
ally scattering  virtual  radiation.  In  order  to  account  for  the  change  of 
wavelength  on  this  view,  Bohr,  Kramers  and  Slater  assumed  that  the 
virtual  oscillators  scatter  as  if  moving  in  the  direction  of  the  primary 
beam,  accounting  for  the  change  of  wavelength  as  a  Doppler  effect.  They 
then  supposed  that  occasionally  an  electron,  under  the  stimulation  of 
the  primary  virtual  rays,  will  suddenly  move  forward  with  a  momentum 
large  compared  with  the  impulse  received  from  the  radiation  pressure. 
Though  we  have  seen  that  not  all  of  the  recoil  electrons  move  directly 
forward,  but  in  a  variety  of  different  directions,  the  theory  could  easily 
be  extended  to  include  the  type  of  motion  that  is  actually  observed. 

The  only  objection  that  one  can  raise  against  this  virtual  radiation 
theory  in  connection  with  the  scattering  phenomena  as  viewed  on  a  large 
scale,  is  that  it  is  difficult  to  see  how  such  a  theory  could  by  itself  predict 
the  change  of  wavelength  and  the  motion  of  the  recoil  electrons.  These 
phenomena  are  directly  predictable  if  the  conservation  of  energy  and 
momentum  are  assumed  to  apply  to  the  individual  actions  of  radiation 
on  electrons;  but  this  is  precisely  where  the  virtual  radiation  theory 
denies  the  validity  of  the  conservation  principles. 

We  may  conclude  that  the  photon  theory  predicts  quantitatively  and 
in  detail  the  change  of  wavelength  of  the  scattered  X-rays  and  the  charac- 

a  C.  R.  Bauer,  C.  R.,  177  (1923),  1211;  C.  T.  R.  Wilson,  Proc.  Roy.  Soc.  [A],  104 
(1923),  1;  K.  Fosterling,  Phys.  Zeits.,  25  (1924),  313;  O.  Halpern,  Zeits.  f.  Phys., 
30  (1924),  153.35 


Experiment  and  the  electromagnetic  theory 


347 


teristics  of  the  recoil  electrons.  The  virtual  radiation  theory  is  probably 
not  inconsistent  with  these  experiments,  but  is  incapable  of  predicting 
the  results.  The  classical  theory,  however,  is  altogether  helpless  to  deal 
with  these  phenomena. 

The  origin  of  the  unmodified  line  —  The  unmodified  line  is  probably 
due  to  X-rays  which  are  scattered  by  electrons  so  firmly  held  within 
the  atom  that  they  are  not  ejected  by  the  impulse  from  the  deflected 
photons.  This  view  is  adequate  to  account  for  the  major  characteristics  of 
the  unmodified  rays,  though  as  yet  no  quantitatively  satisfactory  theory 
of  their  origin  has  been  published 0  It  is  probable  that  a  detailed  account 
of  these  rays  will  involve  definite  assumptions  regarding  the  nature  and 
the  duration  of  the  interaction  between  a  photon  and  an  electron;  but  it 
is  doubtful  whether  such  investigations  will  add  new  evidence  as  to  the 
existence  of  the  photons  themselves. 

A  similar  situation  holds  regarding  the  intensity  of  the  scattered  X- 
rays.  Historically  it  was  the  fact  that  the  classical  electromagnetic  theory 
is  unable  to  account  for  the  low  intensity  of  the  scattered  X-rays  which 
called  attention  to  the  importance  of  the  problem  of  scattering.  But 
the  solutions  which  have  been  offered  by  Breit|B  DiracEl  and  other^l 
of  this  intensity  problem  as  distinguished  from  that  of  the  change  of 
wavelength,  seem  to  introduce  no  new  concepts  regarding  the  nature  of 
radiation  or  of  the  scattering  process.  Let  us  therefore  turn  our  attention 
to  the  experiments  that  have  been  performed  on  the  individual  process 
of  interaction  between  photons  and  electrons. 


Interactions  between  radiation  and  single  electrons 


The  most  significant  of  the  experiments  which  show  departures  from 
the  predictions  of  the  classical  wave  theory  are  those  that  study  the 
action  of  radiation  on  individual  atoms  or  on  individual  electrons.  Two 

a  Cf.,  however,  G.  E.  M.  Jauncey,  Phys.  Rev.,  25  (1925),  314  and  ibid.,  723; 
G.  Wentzel,  Zeits.  f.  Phys.,  43  (1927),  14,  779;  I.  Waller,  Nature,  [120,  155]  (July 
30,  1927).37[The  footnote  in  the  English  edition  continues  with  the  sentence:  'It  is 
possible  that  the  theories  of  the  latter  authors  may  be  satisfactory,  but  they  have 
not  yet  been  stated  in  a  form  suitable  for  quantitative  test'  (eds.).] 

b  G.  Breit,  Phys.  Rev.,  27  (1926),  242. 

c  P.  A.  M.  Dirac,  Proc.  Roy.  Soc.  A,  [111]  (1926),  [405]. 

d  W.  Gordon,  Zeits.  /.  Phys.,  40  (1926),  117;  E.  Schrodinger,  Ann.  d.  Phys.,  82 
(1927),  257;  O.  Klein,  Zeits.  f.  Phys.,  41  (1927),  407;  G.  Wentzel,  Zeits.  f.  Phys., 
43  (1927),  1,  779.38 


348 


A.  H.  Compton 


methods  have  been  found  suitable  for  performing  these  experiments, 
Geiger's  point  counters,  and  Wilson's  cloud  expansion  photographs. 

(1)  Test  for  coincidences  with  fluorescent  X-rays.  —  Bothe  has  perfor- 
med an  experiment  in  which  fluorescent  K  radiation  from  a  thin  copper 
foil  is  excited  by  a  beam  of  incident  X-rays.  The  emitted  rays  are  so 
feeble  that  only  about  five  quanta  of  energy  are  radiated  per  second. 
Two  point  counters  are  mounted,  one  on  either  side  of  the  copper  foil  in 
each  of  which  an  average  of  one  photoelectron  is  produced  and  recorded 
for  about  twenty  quanta  radiated  by  the  foil.  If  we  assume  that  the 
fluorescent  radiation  is  emitted  in  quanta  of  energy,  but  proceed[s]  in 
spherical  waves  in  all  directions,  there  should  thus  be  about  1  chance 
in  20  that  the  recording  of  a  photoelectron  in  one  chamber  should  be 
simultaneous  with  the  recording  of  a  photoelectron  in  the  other. 

The  experiments  showed  no  coincidences  other  than  those  which  were 
explicable  by  such  sources  as  high-speed  /3-particles  which  traverse  both 
counting  chambers. 

This  result  is  in  accord  with  the  photon  hypothesis  0  according  to 
which  coincidences  should  not  occur.  It  is,  nevertheless,  equally  in  accord 
with  the  virtual  radiation  hypothesis,  if  one  assumes  that  the  virtual 
oscillators  in  the  copper  continuously  emit  virtual  fluorescent  radiation, 
so  that  the  photoelectrons  should  be  observed  in  the  counting  chambers 
at  arbitrary  intervals  El 

a  W.  Bothe,  Zeits.  f.  Phys.,  37  (1926),  547. 

b  The  English  edition  continues:  'For  if  a  photon  of  fluorescent  radiation  produces  a 
/3-ray  in  one  counting  chamber  it  cannot  traverse  the  second  chamber.  Coincidences 
should  therefore  not  occur'  (eds.). 

c  At  this  point  in  the  English  version  Compton  is  much  more  critical  of  the  BKS 
theory  (eds.): 

According  to  the  virtual  radiation  hypothesis,  however,  coincidences  should 
have  been  observed.  For  on  this  view  the  fluorescent  K  radiation  is  emitted  by 
virtual  oscillators  associated  with  atoms  in  which  there  is  a  vacancy  in  the  K 
shell.  That  is,  the  copper  foil  can  emit  fluorescent  K  radiation  only  during  the 
short  interval  of  time  following  the  expulsion  of  a  photoelectron  from  the  K 
shell,  until  the  shell  is  again  occupied  by  another  electron.  This  time  interval  is 
so  short  (of  the  order  of  10-15  sec.)  as  to  be  sensibly  instantaneous  on  the  scale 
of  Bothe's  experiments.  Since  on  this  view  the  virtual  fluorescent  radiation  is 
emitted  in  spherical  waves,  the  counting  chambers  on  both  sides  of  the  foil 
should  be  simultaneously  affected,  and  coincident  pulses  in  the  two  chambers 
should  frequently  occur.  The  results  of  the  experiment  are  thus  contrary  to 
the  predictions  of  the  virtual  radiation  hypothesis. 


Experiment  and  the  electromagnetic  theory  349 

But  the  experiment  is  important  in  the  sense  that  it  refutes  the  often 
suggested  idea  that  a  quantum  of  radiation  energy  is  suddenly  emitted 
in  the  form  of  a  spherical  wave  when  an  atom  passes  from  one  stationary 
state  to  another. 

(2)  The  composite  photoelectric  effect.40  —  Wilsor0  and  Augei@  have 
noticed  in  their  cloud  expansion  photographs  that  when  X-rays  eject 
photoelectrons  from  heavy  atoms,  it  often  occurs  that  two  or  more 
electrons  are  ejected  simultaneously  from  the  same  atom.  Auger  has 
deduced  from  studying  the  ranges  of  these  electrons  that,  when  this 
occurs,  the  total  energy  of  all  the  emitted  electrons  is  no  larger  than 
that  of  a  quantum  of  the  incident  radiation.  When  two  electrons  are 
emitted  simultaneously  it  is  usually  the  case  that  the  enegy  of  one  of 
them  is 

Ekin  =  hv-  hvK  , 

which  according  to  the  photon  theory  means  that  this  electron  is  due  to 
the  absorption  of  an  incident  photon  accompanied  by  the  ejection  of  an 
electron  from  the  K  energy  level.  The  second  electron  has  in  general  the 
energy 

-Ekin  =  hvK  -  hvL  . 

This  electron  can  be  explained  as  the  result  of  the  absorption  by  an  L 
electron  of  the  Ka-ray  emitted  when  another  L  electron  occupies  the 
place  left  vacant  in  the  K  orbit  by  the  primary  photoelectron.  It  is 
established  that  all  the  electrons  that  are  observed  in  the  composite 
photoelectric  effect  have  to  be  interpreted  in  the  same  way.  Their  inter- 
pretation according  to  the  photon  theory  thus  meets  with  no  difficulties. 

With  regard  to  the  virtual  radiation  theory,  we  can  take  two  points 
of  view:  first,  under  the  influence  of  the  excitation  produced  by  the 
primary  virtual  radiation,  virtual  fluorescent  K  radiation  is  emitted  by 
virtual  oscillators  associated  with  all  the  atoms  traversed  by  the  primary 
beam.  In  this  view,  the  probability  that  this  virtual  fluorescent  radiation 
will  cause  the  ejection  of  a  photoelectron  from  the  same  atom  as  the  one 
that  has  emitted  the  primary  photoelectron  is  so  small  that  such  an 
event  will  almost  never  occur;  second,  we  can  alternatively  assume  that 
a  virtual  oscillator  emitting  virtual  K  radiation  is  associated  only  with 
an  atom  in  which  there  is  a  vacant  place  in  the  K  shell.  In  this  case, 


a  C.  T.  R.  Wilson,  Proc.  Roy.  Soc.  A,  104  (1923),  1. 
b  P.  Auger,  Journ.  d.  Phys.,  6  (1926),  183. 


350 


A.  H.  Compton 


since  the  virtual  radiation  proceeds  from  the  atom  that  has  emitted  the 
primary  photoelectron,  we  could  expect  with  extremely  large  probability 
that  it  should  excite  a  photoelectron  from  the  L  shell  of  its  own  atom, 
thus  accounting  for  the  composite  photoelectric  effect.  But  in  this  view 
the  virtual  fluorescent  radiation  is  emitted  only  during  a  very  short 
interval  after  the  ejection  of  the  primary  photoelectron,  in  which  case 
Bothe's  fluorescence  experiment,  described  above,  should  have  shown 
some  coincidences. 

One  sees  thus  that  the  virtual  radiation  hypothesis  is  irreconcilable 
both  with  the  composite  photoelectric  effect  and  with  the  absence  of 
coincidences  in  Bothe's  fluorescence  experiment.  The  photon  hypothesis, 
instead,  is  in  complete  accord  with  both  these  experimental  facts. 

(3)  Bothe  and  Geiger's  coincidence  experiments.41  —  We  have  seen  that 
according  to  Bohr,  Kramers  and  Slater's  theory,  virtual  radiation42  is 
being  continually  scattered  by  matter  traversed  by  X-rays,  but  only 
occasionally  is  a  recoil  electron  emitted.  This  is  in  sharp  contrast  with 
the  photon  theory,  according  to  which  a  recoil  electron  appears  every 
time  a  photon  is  scattered.  A  crucial  test  between  the  two  points  of 
view  is  afforded  by  an  experiment  devised  and  brilliantly  performed43 
by  Bothe  and  Geiger@  X-rays  were  passed  through  hydrogen  gas,  and 
the  resulting  recoil  electrons  and  scattered  rays  were  detected  by  means 
of  two  different  point  counters  placed  on  opposite  sides  of  the  column  of 
gas.  The  chamber  for  counting  the  recoil  electrons  was  left  open,  but  a 
sheet  of  thin  platinum  prevented  the  recoil  electrons  from  entering  the 
chamber  for  counting  the  scattered  rays.  Of  course  not  every  photon 
entering  the  second  counter  could  be  noticed,  for  its  detection  depends 
upon  the  production  of  a  /3-ray.  It  was  found  that  there  were  about  ten 
recoil  electrons  for  every  scattered  photon  that  recorded  itself. 

The  impulses  from  the  counting  chambers  were  recorded  on  a  moving 
photographic  film.  In  observations  over  a  total  period  of  over  five  hours, 
sixty-six  such  coincidences  were  observed.  Bothe  and  Geiger  calculate 
that  according  to  the  statistics  of  the  virtual  radiation  theory  the  chance 
was  only  1  in  400  000  that  so  many  coincidences  should  have  occurred. 
This  result  therefore  is  in  accord  with  the  predictions  of  the  photon 
theory,  but  is  directly  contrary  to  the  statistical  view  of  the  scattering 
process. 

(4)  Directional  emission  of  scattered  X-rays.  —  Additional  information 
a  W.  Bothe  and  H.  Geiger,  Zeits.  f.  Phys.,  26  (1924),  44;  32  (1925),  639. 


Experiment  and  the  electromagnetic  theory 


351 


Fig.  3.  If  the  X-rays  excite  a  recoil  electron  at  an  angle  9,  the  photon  theory 
predicts  a  secondary  /3-particle  at  an  angle  <p. 

regarding  the  nature  of  scattered  X-rays  has  been  obtained  by  studying 
the  relation  between  the  direction  of  ejection  of  the  recoil  electron  and 
the  direction  in  which  the  associated  photon  proceeds.  According  to 
the  photon  theory,  we  have  a  definite  relation  (equation  (@]))  between 
the  angle  at  which  the  photon  is  scattered  and  the  angle  at  which  the 
recoil  electron  is  ejected.  But  according  to  any  form  of  spreading  wave 
theory,  including  that  of  Bohr,  Kramers  and  Slater,  the  scattered  rays 
may  produce  effects  in  any  direction  whatever,  and  there  should  be  no 
correlation  between  the  directions  in  which  the  recoil  electrons  proceed 
and  the  directions  in  which  the  secondary  /3-rays  are  ejected  by  the 
scattered  X-rays. 

A  test  to  see  whether  such  a  relation  exists  has  been  made@  using 
Wilson's  cloud  apparatus,  in  the  manner  shown  diagrammatically  in 
Fig.  3.  Each  recoil  electron  produces  a  visible  track,  and  occasionally  a 
secondary  track  is  produced  by  the  scattered  X-ray.  When  but  one  recoil 

a  A.  H.  Compton  and  A.  W.  Simon,  Phys.  Rev.,  26  (1925),  289. 


352 


A.  H.  Compton 


electron  appears  on  the  same  plate  with  the  track  due  to  the  scattered 
rays,  it  is  possible  to  tell  at  once  whether  the  angles  satisfy  equation  Q. 
If  two  or  three  recoil  tracks  appear,44  the  measurements  on  each  track 
can  be  approximately45  weighted. 

Out  of  850  plates  taken  in  the  final  series  of  readings,  thirty-eight  show 
both  recoil  tracks  and  secondary  /3-ray  tracks.  On  eighteen  of  these  plates 
the  observed  angle  <p46  is  within  20  degrees  of  the  angle  calculated  from 
the  measured  value  of  9,  while  the  other  twenty  tracks  are  distributed 
at  random  angles.  This  ratio  18:20  is  about  that  to  be  expected  for  the 
ratio  of  the  rays  scattered  by  the  part  of  the  air  from  which  the  recoil 
tracks  could  be  measured  to  the  stray  rays  from  various  sources.  There 
is  only  about  1  chance  in  250  that  so  many  secondary  /?-rays  should  have 
appeared  at  the  theoretical  angle. 

If  this  experiment  is  reliable,  it  means  that  there  is  scattered  X-ray 
energy  associated  with  each  recoil  electron  sufficient  to  produce  a  /3-ray, 
and  proceeding  in  a  direction  determined  at  the  moment  of  ejection 
of  the  recoil  electron.  In  other  words,  the  scattered  X-rays  proceed  in 
photons,  that  is47  in  directed  quanta  of  radiant  energy. 

This  result,  like  that  of  Bothe  and  Geiger,  is  irreconcilable  with  Bohr, 
Kramers  and  Slater's  hypothesis  of  the  statistical  production  of  recoil 
and  photoelectrons.  On  the  other  hand,  both  of  these  experiments  are 
in  complete  accord  with  the  predictions  of  the  photon  theory. 

Reliability  of  experimental  evidence 

While  all  of  the  experiments  that  we  have  considered  are  difficult  to 
reconcile  with  the  classical  theory  that  radiation  consists  of  electromag- 
netic waves,  only  those  dealing  with  the  individual  scattering  process48 
afford  crucial  tests  between  the  photon  theory  and  the  statistical  theory 
of  virtual  radiation.  It  becomes  of  especial  importance,  therefore,  to 
consider  the  errors  to  which  these  experiments  are  subject. 

When  two  point  counters  are  set  side  by  side,  it  is  very  easy  to  obtain 
coincidences  from  extraneous  sources.  Thus,  for  example,  the  apparatus 
must  be  electrically  shielded  so  perfectly  that  a  spark  on  the  high-tension 
outfit  that  operates  the  X-ray  tube  may  not  produce  coincident  impulses 
in  the  two  counters.  Then  there  are  high-speed  a-  and  /3-rays,  due  to 
radium  emanation  in  the  air  and  other  radioactive  impurities,  which 
may  pass  through  both  chambers  and  produce  spurious  coincidences. 
The  method  which  Bothe  and  Geiger  used  to  detect  the  coincidences, 
of49  recording  on  a  photographic  film  the  time  of  each  pulse,  makes  it 


Experiment  and  the  electromagnetic  theory 


353 


possible  to  estimate  reliably  the  probability  that  the  coincidences  are 
due  to  chance.  Moreover,  it  is  possible  by  auxiliary  tests  to  determine 
whether  spurious  coincidences  are  occurring  —  for  example,  by  operating 
the  outfit  as  usual,  except  that  the  X-rays  are  absorbed  by  a  sheet  of  lead. 
It  is  especially  worthy  of  note  that  in  the  fluorescence  experiment  the 
photon  theory  predicted  absence  of  coincidences,  while  in  the  scattering 
experiment  it  predicted  their  presence.  It  is  thus  difficult  to  see  how 
both  of  these  counter  experiments  can  have  been  seriously  affected  by 
systematic  errors. 

In  the  cloud  expansion  experiment  the  effect  of  stray  radiation  is  to 
hide  the  effect  sought  for,  rather  than  to  introduce  a  spurious  effect.  It 
is  possible  that  due  to  radioactive  contamination  and  to  stray  scattered 
X-rays  /3-particles  may  appear  in  different  parts  of  the  chamber,  but 
it  will  be  only  a  matter  of  chance  if  these  /3-particles  appear  in  the 
position  predicted  from  the  direction  of  ejection  of  the  recoil  electrons. 
It  was  in  fact  only  by  taking  great  care  to  reduce  such  stray  radiations 
to  a  minimum  that  the  directional  relations  were  clearly  observed  in  the 
photographs.  It  would  seem  that  the  only  form  of  consistent  error  that 
could  vitiate  the  result  of  this  experiment  would  be  the  psychological51 
one  of  misjudging  the  angles  at  which  the  /3-particles  appear.  It  hardly 
seems  possible,  however,  that  errors  in  the  measurement  of  these  angles 
could  be  large  enough  to  account  for  the  strong  apparent  tendency  for 
the  angles  to  fit  with  the  theoretical  formula. 

It  is  perhaps  worth  mentioning  further  that  the  initial  publications 
of  the  two  experiments  on  the  individual  scattering  process  were  made 
simultaneously,  which  means  that  both  sets  of  experimenters  had  inde- 
pendently reached  a  conclusion  opposed  to  the  statistical  theory  of  the 
production  of  the  /3-rays. 

Nevertheless,52  given  the  difficulty  of  the  experiments  and  the  import- 
ance of  the  conclusions  to  which  they  have  led,  it  is  highly  desirable  that 
both  experiments  should  be  repeated  by  physicists  from  other  laborato- 
ries. 

Summary 

The  classical  theory  that  radiation  consists  of  electromagnetic  waves 
propagated  in  all  directions  through  space53  is  intimately  connected  to 
the  idea  of  the  ether,  which  is  difficult  to  conceive.  It  affords  no  adequate 
picture  of  the  manner  in  which  radiation  is  emitted  or  absorbed.  It  is 
inconsistent  with  the  experiments  on  the  photoelectric  effect,  and  is 


354 


A.  H.  Compton 


entirely  helpless  to  account  for  the  change  of  wavelength  of  scattered 
radiation  or  the  production  of  recoil  electrons. 

The  theory  of  virtual  oscillators  and  virtual  radiation  which  are  asso- 
ciated statistically  with  sudden  jumps  of  atomic  energy  and  the  emission 
of  photoelectrons  and  recoil  electrons,  does  not  seem  to  be  inconsistent 
with  any  of  these  phenomena  as  viewed  on  a  macroscopic  scale.  This 
theory,  however,54  retains  the  difficulties  inherent  in  the  conception  of 
the  ether  and  seems  powerless  to  predict  the  characteristics  of  the  pho- 
toelectrons and  the  recoil  electrons.  It55  is  further  difficult  to  reconcile 
with  the  composite  photoelectric  effect  and  is  also  contrary  to  Bothe's 
and  Bothe  and  Geiger's  coincidence  experiments  and  to  the  ray  track 
experiments  relating  the  directions  of  ejection  of  a  recoil  electron  and  of 
emission  of  the  associated  scattered  X-ray. 

The  photon  theory  avoids  the  difficulties  associated  with  the  concep- 
tion of  the  ether.56  The  production  and  absorption  of  radiation  is  very 
simply  connected  with  the  modern  idea  of  stationary  states.  It  supplies 
a  straightforward  explanation  of  the  major  characteristics  of  the  photo- 
electric effect,  and  it  accounts  in  the  simplest  possible  manner  for  the 
change  of  wavelength  accompanying  scattering  and  the  existence  of  recoil 
electrons.  Moreover,  it  predicts  accurately  the  results  of  the  experiments 
with  individual  radiation  quanta,  where  the  statistical  theory  fails. 

Unless  the  four57  experiments  on  the  individual  events58  are  subject 
to  improbably  large  experimental  errors,  the  conclusion  is,  I  believe, 
unescapable  that  radiation  consists  of  directed  quanta  of  energy,  i.e., 
of  photons,  and  that  energy  and  momentum  are  conserved  when  these 
photons  interact  with  electrons  or  atoms. 

Let  me  say  again  that  this  result  does  not  mean  that  there  is  no 
truth  in  the  concept  of  waves  of  radiation.  The  conclusion  is  rather  that 
energy  is  not  transmitted  by  such  waves.  The  power  of  the  wave  concept 
in  problems  of  interference,  refraction,  etc.,  is  too  well  known  to  require 
emphasis.  Whether  the  waves  serve  to  guide  the  photons,  or  whether 
there  is  some  other  relation  between  photons  and  waves  is  another  and 
a  difficult  question. 


Discussion 


355 


Discussion  of  Mr  Compton's  report 

Mr  Lorentz.  —  I  would  like  to  make  two  comments.  First  on  the 
question  of  the  ether.  Mr  Compton  considers  it  an  advantage  of  the 
photon  theory  that  it  allows  us  to  do  without  the  hypothesis  of  an  ether 
which  leads  to  great  difficulties.  I  must  say  that  these  difficulties  do  not 
seem  so  great  to  me  and  that  in  my  opinion  the  theory  of  relativity 
does  not  necessarily  rule  out  the  concept  of  a  universal  medium.  Indeed, 
Maxwell's  equations  are  compatible  with  relativity,  and  one  can  well 
imagine  a  medium  for  which  these  equations  hold.  One  can  even,  as 
Maxwell  and  other  physicists  have  done  with  some  success,  construct 
a  mechanical  model  of  such  a  medium.  One  would  have  to  add  only 
the  hypothesis  of  the  permeability  of  ponderable  matter  by  the  ether  to 
have  all  that  is  required.  Of  course,  in  making  these  remarks,  I  should 
not  wish  to  return  in  any  way  to  these  mechanical  models,  from  which 
physics  has  turned  away  for  good  reasons.  One  can  be  satisfied  with  the 
concept  of  a  medium  that  can  pass  freely  through  matter  and  to  which 
Maxwell's  equations  can  be  applied. 

In  the  second  place:  it  is  quite  certain  that,  in  the  phenomena  of  light, 
there  must  yet  be  something  other  than  the  photons.  For  instqncem  in  a 
diffraction  experiment  performed  with  very  weak  light,  it  can  happen 
that  the  number  of  photons  present  at  a  given  instant  between  the 
diffracting  screen  and  the  plane  on  which  one  observes  the  distribution 
of  light,  is  very  limited.  The  average  number  can  even  be  smaller  than 
one,  which  means  that  there  are  instants  when  no  photon  is  present  in 
the  space  under  consideration. 

This  clearly  shows  that  the  diffraction  phenomena  cannot  be  produced 
by  some  novel  action  among  the  photons.  There  must  be  something  that 
guides  them  in  their  progress  and  it  is  natural  to  seek  this  something 
in  the  electromagnetic  field  as  determined  by  the  classical  theory.  This 
notion  of  electromagnetic  field,  with  its  waves  and  vibrations  would  bring 
us  back,  in  Mr  Compton's  view,  to  the  notion  of  ether. 

Mr  Compton.  —  It  seems,  indeed,  difficult  to  avoid  the  idea  of 
waves  in  the  discussion  of  optical  phenomena.  According  to  Maxwell's 
theory  the  electric  and  magnetic  properties  of  space  lead  to  the  idea  of 
waves  as  directly  as  did  the  elastic  ether  imagined  by  Fresnel.  Why  the 
space  having  such  magnetic  properties  should  bear  the  name  of  ether 
is  perhaps  simply  a  matter  of  words.  The  fact  that  these  properties  of 
space  immediately  lead  to  the  wave  equation  with  velocity  c  is  a  much 


356 


A.  H.  Compton 


more  solid  basis  for  the  hypothesis  of  the  existence  of  waves  than  the 
old  elastic  ether.  That  something  (E  and  H)  propagates  like  a  wave 
with  velocity  c  seems  evident.  However,  experiments  of  the  kind  we  have 
just  discussed  show,  if  they  are  correct,  that  the  energy  of  the  bundle 
of  X-rays  propagates  in  the  form  of  particles  and  not  in  the  form  of 
extended  waves.  So  then,  not  even  the  electromagnetic  ether  appears  to 
be  satisfactory. 

Mr  Bragg.  —  In  his  report  Mr  Compton  has  discussed  the  average 
momentum  component  of  the  electrons  in  the  direction  of  motion  of 
the  photon,  and  he  has  informed  us  of  the  conclusion,  at  which  several 
experimenters  have  arrived,  that  this  forward  average  component  is  equal 
to  the  momentum  of  the  light  quantum  whose  energy  has  been  absorbed 
and  is  found  again  in  that  of  the  photoelectron. 

I  would  like  to  report  in  this  connection  some  results  obtained  by 
Mr  WilliamsQ  Monochromatic  X-rays,  with  wavelength  lying  between 
0.5  A  and  0.7  A,  enter  a  Wilson  cloud  chamber  containing  oxygen  or 
nitrogen.  The  trajectories  of  the  photoelectrons  are  observed  through  a 
stereoscope  and  their  initial  directions  are  measured.  Since  the  speed  of 
the  photoelectrons  is  exactly  known  (the  ionisation  energy  being  weak  by 
comparison  to  the  quantity  hv) ,  a  measurement  of  the  initial  direction 
is  equivalent  to  a  measurement  of  momentum  in  the  forward  direction. 
Williams  finds  that  the  average  momentum  component  in  this  direction 
is  in  all  cases  markedly  larger  than  the  quantity  ^  or  j.  These  results 
can  be  summarised  by  a  comparison  with  the  scheme  proposed  by  Perrin 
and  Auger  ([P.  Auger  and  F.  Perrin],  Journ.  d.  Phys.  [6th  series,  vol.  8] 
(February  1927),  [93]).  They  are  in  perfect  agreement  with  the  cos2  9 
law,  provided  one  assumes  that  the  magnetic  impulse  Tm  is  equal  to 
1.8^r  and  not  just  as  these  authors  assume.  One  should  not  attach 
any  particular  importance  to  this  number  1.8,  because  the  range  of  the 
examined  wavelengths  is  too  small.  I  mention  it  only  to  show  that  it 
is  possible  that  the  simple  law  proposed  by  Mr  Compton  might  not  be 
exact. 

I  would  like  to  point  out  that  this  method  of  measuring  the  forward 
component  of  the  momentum  is  more  precise  than  an  attempt  made  to 
establish  results  about  the  most  probable  direction  of  emission. 

Mr  Wilson  says  that  his  own  observations,  discussed  in  his  Memoir 
a  Cf.  the  relevant  footnote  on  p.  13401  (eds. ). 


Discussion  357 

of  1923^  (but  which  do  not  pretend  to  be  very  precise)  seem  to  show 
that  in  fact  the  forward  momentum  component  of  the  photoelectrons 
is,  on  average,  much  larger  than  what  one  would  derive  from  the  idea 
that  the  absorbed  quantum  yields  all  of  its  momentum  to  the  expelled 
electron. 

Mr  Richardson.  —  When  they  are  expelled  by  certain  X-rays,  the 
electrons  have  a  momentum  in  the  direction  of  propagation  of  the  rays 
equal  to  1.8-^r.  If  I  have  understood  Mr  Bragg  correctly,  this  result  is  not 
the  effect  of  some  specific  elementary  process  [action],  but  the  average 
result  for  a  great  number  of  observations  in  which  the  electrons  were 
expelled  in  different  directions.  Whether  or  not  the  laws  of  energy  and 
momentum  conservation  apply  to  an  elementary  process,  it  is  certain 
that  they  apply  to  the  average  result  for  a  great  number  of  these  pro- 
cesses. Therefore,  the  process  [processus]  we  are  talking  about  must  be 
governed  by  the  equations  for  momentum  and  energy.  If  for  simplicity 
we  ignore  the  refinements  introduced  by  relativity,  these  equations  are 

hv  — 

—  =  mv  +  MV 

c 

and 

1  i   2 

hv  =  -mv2  +  -MV  , 

2  2 

where  m  and  M  are  the  masses,  v  and  V  the  velocities  of  the  electrons 
and  of  the  positive  residue;  the  overbars  express  that  these  are  averages. 
The  experiments  show  that  the  average  value  of  mv  is  1.8^  and  not 
This  means  that  MV  is  not  zero,  so  that  we  cannot  ignore  this  term 
in  the  equation.  If  we  consider,  for  instance,  the  photoelectric  effect  on 
a  hydrogen  atom,  we  have  to  take  the  collision  energy  of  the  hydrogen 
nucleus  into  account  in  the  energy  equation. 

Mr  Lorentz.  —  The  term  \MV2  will  however  be  much  smaller  than 

±rmJ2?59 

Mr  Richardson.  —  It  is  approximately  its  1850th  part:  that  cannot 
always  be  considered  negligible. 

Mr  Born  thinks  that  he  is  speaking  also  for  several  other  members 


a  Referenced  in  footnote  on  p.[336](eds.). 


358 


A.  H.  Compton 


in  asking  Mr  Compton  to  explain  why  one  should  expect  that  the  mo- 
mentum imparted  to  the  electron  be  equal  to 

Mr  Compton.  —  When  radiation  of  energy  hv  is  absorbed  by  an 
atom  —  which  one  surely  has  to  assume  in  order  to  account  for  the 
kinetic  energy  of  the  photoelectron  —  the  momentum  imparted  to  the 
atom  by  this  radiation  is  According  to  the  classical  electron  theory, 
when  an  atom  composed  of  a  negative  charge  —  e  of  mass  m  and  a  positive 
charge  +e  of  mass  M  absorbs  energy  from  an  electromagnetic  wave, 
the  momenta  imparted  to  the  two  elementary  charges  [electrons]  are 
inversely  proportional  to  their  masses.  This  depends  on  the  fact  that 
the  forward  momentum  is  due  to  the  magnetic  vector,  which  acts  with 
a  force  proportional  to  the  velocity  and  consequently  more  strongly  on 
the  charge  having  the  smaller  mass.60  Effectively,  the  momentum  is  thus 
received  by  the  charge  with  the  smaller  mass. 

Mr  Debye.  —  Is  the  reason  why  you  think  that  the  rest  of  the  atom 
does  not  receive  any  of  the  forward  momentum  purely  theoretical? 

Mr  Compton.  —  The  photographs  of  the  trajectories  of  the  photo- 
electrons  show,  in  accordance  with  Auger's  prediction,  that  the  forward 
component  of  the  momentum  of  the  photoelectron  is,  on  average,  the 
same  as  that  of  the  photon.  That  means,  clearly,  that  on  average  the 
rest  of  the  atom  does  not  receive  any  momentum. 

Mr  Dirac.  —  I  have  examined  the  motion  of  an  electron  placed 
in  an  arbitrary  force  field  according  to  the  classical  theory,  when  it  is 
subject  to  incident  radiation,  and  I  have  shown  in  a  completely  general 
way  that  at  every  instant  the  fraction  of  the  rate  of  change  [vitesse  de 
variation]  of  the  forward  momentum  of  the  electron  due  to  the  incident 
radiation  is  equal  to  ^  times  the  fraction  of  the  rate  of  change  of  the 
energy  due  to  the  incident  radiation.  The  nucleus  and  the  other  electrons 
of  the  atom  produce  changes  of  momentum  and  of  energy  that  at  each 
instant  are  simply  added  to  those  produced  by  the  incident  radiation. 
Since  the  radiation  must  modify  the  electron's  orbit,  it  must  also  change 
the  fraction  of  the  rate  of  change  of  the  momentum  and  of  the  energy 
that  comes  from  the  nucleus  and  the  other  electrons,  so  that  it  would  be 
necessary  to  integrate  the  motion  in  order  to  determine  the  total  change 
produced  by  the  incident  radiation  in  the  energy  and  the  momentum. 


Discussion  359 

Mr  Born.  —  I  would  like  to  mention  here  a  paper  by  Wentzel0 
which  contains  a  rigorous  treatment  of  the  scattering  of  light  by  atoms 
according  to  quantum  mechanics.  In  it,  the  author  considers  also  the 
influence  of  the  magnetic  force,  which  allows  him  to  obtain  the  quantum 
analogue  of  the  classical  light  pressure.  It  is  only  in  the  limiting  case  of 
very  short  wavelengths  that  one  finds  that  the  momentum  of  light  ^  is 
completely  transmitted  to  the  electron;  in  the  case  of  large  wavelengths 
an  influence  of  the  binding  forces  appears. 

Mr  Ehrenfest.  —  One  can  show  by  a  very  simple  example  where 
the  surplus  of  forward  momentum,  which  we  have  just  discussed,  can 
have  its  origin.  Take  a  box  whose  inner  walls  reflect  light  completely, 
but  diffusedly,  and  assume  that  on  the  bottom  there  is  a  little  hole. 
Through  the  latter  I  shine  a  ray  of  light  into  the  box  which  comes  and 
goes  inside  the  box  and  pushes  away  its  lid  and  bottom.  The  lid  then 
has  a  surplus  of  forward  momentum. 

Mr  BohrJB  —  With  regard  to  the  question  of  waves  or  photons  dis- 
cussed by  Mr  Compton,  I  would  like  to  make  a  few  remarks,  without  pre- 
empting the  general  discussion.  The  radiation  experiments  have  indeed 
revealed  features  that  are  not  easy  to  reconcile  within  a  classical  picture. 
This  difficulty  arises  particularly  in  the  Compton  effect  itself.  Several 
aspects  of  this  phenomenon  can  be  described  very  simply  with  the  aid  of 
photons,  but  we  must  not  forget  that  the  change  of  frequency  that  takes 
place  is  measured  using  instruments  whose  functioning  is  interpreted 
according  to  the  wave  theory.  There  seems  to  be  a  logical  contradiction 
here,  since  the  description  of  the  incident  wave  as  well  as  that  of  the 
scattered  wave  require  that  these  waves  be  finitely  extended  [limitees] 
in  space  and  time,  while  the  change  in  energy  and  in  momentum  of 
the  electron  is  considered  as  an  instantaneous  phenomenon  at  a  given 
point  in  spacetime.  It  is  precisely  because  of  such  difficulties  that  Messrs 
Kramers,  Slater  and  myself  were  led  to  think  that  one  should  completely 
reject  the  idea  of  the  existence  of  photons  and  assume  that  the  laws  of 
conservation  of  energy  and  momentum  are  true  only  in  a  statistical  way. 

The  well-known  experiments  by  Geiger  and  Bothe  and  by  Compton 
and  Simon,  however,  have  shown  that  this  point  of  view  is  not  admissible 

a  Born  is  presumably  referring  to  Wentzel's  second  paper  on  the  photoelectric  effect 
(Wentzel  1927).  Compare  Mehra  and  Rechenberg  (1987,  pp.  835  ff.)  (eds.). 

a  This  discussion  contribution  by  Bohr  is  reprinted  and  translated  also  in  vol.  5  of 
Bohr's  Collected  Works  (Bohr  1984,  pp.  207-12).  (eds.). 


360 


A.  H.  Compton 


and  that  the  conservation  laws  are  valid  for  the  individual  processes,  in 
accordance  with  the  concept  of  photons.  But  the  dilemma  before  which 
we  are  placed  regarding  the  nature  of  light  is  only  a  typical  example 
of  the  difficulties  that  one  encounters  when  one  wishes  to  interpret 
the  atomic  phenomena  using  classical  concepts.  The  logical  difficulties 
with  a  description  in  space  and  time  have  since  been  removed  in  large 
part  by  the  fact  that  it  has  been  realised  that  one  encounters  a  similar 
paradox  with  respect  to  the  nature  of  material  particles.  According  to 
the  fundamental  ideas  of  Mr  de  Broglie,  which  have  found  such  perfect 
confirmation  in  the  experiments  of  Davisson  and  Germer,  the  concept 
of  waves  is  as  indispensable  in  the  interpretation  of  the  properties  of 
material  particles  as  in  the  case  of  light.  We  know  thereby  that  it  is 
equally  necessary  to  attribute  to  the  wave  field  a  finite  extension  in 
space  and  in  time,  if  one  wishes  to  define  the  energy  and  the  momentum 
of  the  electron,  just  as  one  has  to  assume  a  similar  finite  extension  in 
the  case  of  the  light  quantum  in  order  to  be  able  to  talk  about  frequency 
and  wavelength. 

Therefore,  in  the  case  of  the  scattering  process,  in  order  to  describe  the 
two  changes  affecting  the  electron  and  the  light  we  must  work  with  four 
wave  fields  (two  for  the  electron,  before  and  after  the  phenomenon,  and 
two  for  the  quantum  of  light,  incident  and  scattered),  finite  in  extension, 
which  meet  in  the  same  region  of  spacetimeB  In  such  a  representation 
all  possibility  of  incompatibility  with  a  description  in  space  and  time 
disappears.  I  hope  the  general  discussion  will  give  me  the  opportunity 
to  enter  more  deeply  into  the  details  of  this  question,  which  is  intimately 
tied  to  the  general  problem  of  quantum  theory. 

Mr  Brillouin.  —  I  have  had  the  opportunity  to  discuss  Mr  Comp- 
ton's  report  with  Mr  Auger0  and  wish  to  make  a  few  comments  on  this 
topic.  A  purely  corpuscular  description  of  radiation  is  not  sufficient  to 
understand  the  peculiarities  of  the  phenomena;  to  assume  that  energy 
is  transported  by  photons  hu  is  not  enough  to  account  for  all  the  effects 
of  radiation.  It  is  essential  to  complete  our  information  by  giving  the 
direction  of  the  electric  field;  we  cannot  do  without  this  field,  whose  role 
in  the  wave  description  is  well  known. 

I  shall  recall  in  this  context  a  simple  argument,  recently  given  by  Auger 

a  Compare  also  the  discussion  contributions  below,  by  Pauli,  Schrodinger  and  others 
(eds.). 

b  As  noted  in  section  11.41  this  and  other  reports  had  been  circulated  among  the 
participants  before  the  conference  (eds.). 


Discussion 


361 


Ught  x&y 


Fig.  1. 


and  F.  Perrin,  and  which  illustrates  clearly  this  remark.  Let  us  consider 
the  emission  of  electrons  by  an  atom  subject  to  radiation,  and  let  us 
examine  the  distribution  of  the  directions  of  emission.  This  distribution 
has  usually  been  observed  in  a  plane  containing  the  light  ray  and  the 
direction  of  the  electric  field  (the  incident  radiation  is  assumed  to  be 
polarised) ;  let  ip  be  the  angle  formed  by  the  direction  of  emission  of  the 
photoelectrons  and  the  electric  field  h;  as  long  as  the  incident  radiation  is 
not  too  hard,  the  distribution  of  the  photoelectrons  is  symmetric  around 
the  electric  field;  one  can  then  show  that  the  probability  law  necessarily 
takes  the  form  A  cos2  <p.  Indeed,  instead  of  observing  the  distribution 
in  the  plane  of  incidence  (Fig.  1),  let  us  examine  it  in  the  plane  of  the 
wave;  the  same  distribution  law  will  still  be  valid;  and  it  is  the  only  one 
that  would  allow  us  to  obtain,  through  the  superposition  of  two  waves 
polarised  at  right  angles,  an  entirely  symmetric  distribution 


A  cos2  (p  +  A  sin2  ip  =  A  . 


Now,  from  the  point  of  view  of  waves,  one  must  necessarily  obtain 
this  result,  a  beam  [rayonnement]  of  natural  light  having  no  privileged 
direction  in  the  plane  of  the  wave.  These  symmetry  considerations,  which 
any  theory  of  radiation  must  respect,  provide  a  substantial  difficulty 
for  the  structural  theories  of  the  photon  (Bubb's  quantum  vector,  for 
instance). 

Summing  up,  the  discontinuity  of  the  radiation  manifests  itself  just  in 
the  most  elementary  way,  through  the  laws  of  conservation  of  energy  and 
momentum,  but  the  detailed  analysis  of  the  phenomena  is  interpreted 
more  naturally  from  the  continuous  point  of  view.  For  the  problem  of 
emission  of  the  photoelectrons,  a  complete  theory  has  been  given  by 


362  A.  H.  Compton 

Wentzel,  by  means  of  wave  mechanics^]  He  finds  the  A  cos2  (p  law  of 
F.  Perrin  and  Auger  for  radiation  of  low  penetration;  when  the  radiation 
is  harder,  Wentzel  obtains  a  more  complex  law,  in  which  the  electrons 
tend  to  be  emitted  in  larger  numbers  in  the  forward  direction.  His  theory, 
however,  seems  incomplete  with  regard  to  this  point  since,  if  I  am  not 
mistaken,  he  has  assumed  the  immobility  of  the  atomic  nucleus;  now, 
nothing  tells  us  a  priori  how  the  momentum  ^  of  the  photon  is  going 
to  be  distributed  between  the  nucleus  and  the  emitted  electron. 

Mr  Lorentz.  —  Allow  me  to  point  out  that  according  to  the  old 
electron  theory,  when  one  has  a  nucleus  and  an  electron  on  which  a 
beam  of  polarised  light  falls,  the  initial  angular  momentum  of  the  system 
is  always  conserved.  The  angular  momentum  imparted  to  the  electron- 
nucleus  system  will  be  provided  at  the  expense  of  the  angular  momentum 
of  the  radiation  field. 

Mr  Compton.  —  The  conception  of  the  photon  differs  from  the 
classical  theory  in  that,  when  a  photoelectron  is  emitted,  the  photon  is 
completely  absorbed  and  no  radiation  field  is  left.  The  motion  of  the 
photoelectron  must  thus  be  such  that  the  final  angular  momentum  of 
the  electron-nucleus  system  will  be  the  same  as  the  initial  momentum  of 
the  photon-electron-nucleus  system.  This  condition  restricts  the  possible 
trajectories  of  the  emitted  photoelectron. 

Mr  Kramers.  —  In  order  to  interpret  his  experiments,  Mr  Compton 
needs  to  know  how  the  absorption  fi  is  divided  between  a  component  r, 
due  to  the  'true'  absorption,  and  a  component  a  due  to  the  scattering. 
We  do  not  know  with  certainty  that,  if  \i  can  be  written  in  the  form  CXa+ 
D,  the  constant  D  truly  represents  the  scattering  for  large  wavelengths, 
where  CXa  is  no  longer  small  compared  to  D.  In  general,  thus,  specific 
measurements  of  a  are  necessary.  Did  you  have  sufficient  information 
regarding  the  values  of  a  and  r  in  your  experiments? 

Mr  Compton.  —  The  most  important  case  in  which  it  is  necessary 
to  distinguish  between  the  true  absorption  r  and  the  absorption  a  due  to 
the  scattering,  is  that  of  carbon.  For  this  case,  HewletlB  has  measured 

a  This  is  presumably  Wentzel's  treatment  from  his  first  paper  on  the  photoelectric 
effect  (Wentzel  1926).  Compare  again  Mehra  and  Rechenberg  (1987,  pp.  835  ff.) 
(eds.). 

a  [C.  W.  Hewlett,  Phys.  Rev.,  17  (1921),  284.] 


Discussion 


363 


a  directly  for  the  wavelength  0.71  A  and  the  total  absorption  /i  over 
a  large  range  of  wavelengths.  The  difference  between  /i  and  a  for  the 
wavelength  0.71  A  corresponds  to  r  for  this  wavelength.  According  to 
Owen's  formula  this  r  is  proportional  to  A3;  we  can  thus  calculate  r  for 
all  wavelengths.  The  difference  between  this  value  of  r  and  the  measured 
value  of  fi  corresponds  to  the  value  of  a  for  the  wavelengths  considered. 
Since  r  is  relatively  small  in  the  case  of  carbon,  especially  for  small 
wavelengths,  this  procedure  yields  a  value  for  a  that  cannot  be  very 
imprecise. 

Mr  Bragg.  —  When  one  consults  the  original  literature  on  this 
subject,  one  is  struck  by  how  much  the  X-ray  absorption  measurements 
leave  to  be  desired,  both  with  regard  to  precision  as  well  as  with  regard 
to  the  extent  of  the  scale  of  wavelengths  for  which  they  have  been 
performed. 

Mr  Pauli.  —  How  large  is  the  broadening  of  the  modified  rays? 

Mr  Compton.  —  The  experiments  have  shown  clearly  that  the  mo- 
dified ray  is  broader  than  the  unmodified  ray.  In  the  typical  case  of 
the  ray  A  0.7  A  scattered  by  carbon,  the  broadening  is  of  order  0.005 
angstrom.  Unfortunately,  the  experiments  concerning  this  point  are  far 
from  being  satisfactory,  and  this  number  should  be  considered  only  as  a 
rough  approximation. 

Mr  Pauli.  —  The  broadening  of  the  modified  ray  can  be  interpreted 
theoretically  in  two  ways,  which  to  tell  the  truth  reduce  to  the  same 
according  to  quantum  mechanics.  First,  the  electron,  in  a  given  statio- 
nary state  of  the  atom,  has  a  certain  velocity  distribution  with  regard  to 
magnitude  and  direction.  That  gives  rise  to  a  broadening  of  the  frequency 
of  the  scattered  rays  through  the  Doppler  effect,  a  broadening  whose 
order  of  magnitude  is  ^  =  | ,  where  v  denotes  the  average  velocity  of 
the  electron  in  the  atom. 

In  order  to  convey  the  second  means  of  explanation,  I  would  like  to 
sketch  briefly  the  meaning  of  the  Compton  effect  in  wave  mechanics^ 
This  meaning  is  based  first  of  all  on  the  wave  equation 

Ed2ip      4«e  v-^       dtp      4ir2  ( e2  ^-^    a        ,  ,\ 

a         u  a  \         a  / 

a  For  a  modern  discussion,  see  Bjorken  and  Drell  (1964,  Chapter  9)  (eds.). 


364 


A.  H.  Compton 


and  further  on  the  expression 

dip*         dip  Anie 

iba  =  ip-  ip  h  — — (faipip  , 

dxa         axa       li  c 

in  which  ip  is  Schrodinger's  function,  ip*  the  complex  conjugate  value 
and  if  a  the  four-potential  of  the  electromagnetic  field.  Given  Sa,  one 
calculates  the  radiation  from  classical  electrodynamics.  If  now  in  the 
wave  equation  one  replaces  ipa  by  the  potential  of  an  incident  plane 
wave,  the  terms  that  are  proportional  to  the  amplitude  of  this  wave  can 
be  considered  infinitely  small  in  the  first  order,  and  one  can  apply  the  ap- 
proximation methods  of  perturbation  theory.  This  now  is  a  point  where 
one  needs  to  be  especially  careful.  It  is  all-important  to  know  what  one 
will  take  as  the  unperturbed  field  ip,  which  must  correspond  to  a  solution 
of  the  wave  equation  for  the  free  particle  (corresponding  to  ipa  =  0).61 
One  finds  that  in  order  to  agree  with  the  observations,  it  is  necessary  to 
take  two  infinitely  extended  monochromatic  wave  trains  as  being  already 
present  in  the  unperturbed  solution,  of  which  one  corresponds  to  the 
initial  state,  the  other  to  the  final  state  of  the  Compton  process.  In  my 
opinion  this  assumption,  on  which  the  theories  of  the  Compton  effect 
by  Schrodinger,  Gordon  and  Klein  are  based,  is  unsatisfactory  and  this 
defect  is  corrected  only  by  Dirac's  quantum  electrodynamics 0  But  if 
one  makes  this  assumption,  the  current  distribution  of  the  unperturbed 
solution  corresponds  to  that  of  an  infinitely  extended  diffraction  grating 
[un  reseau  infiniment  etendu]  that  moves  with  a  constant  speed,  and  the 
action  of  the  radiation  on  this  grating  leads  to  a  sharp  modified  ray. 

If  one  considers  a  bound  electron  in  an  atom,  one  has  to  replace  one 
component  of  the  solution  ip  in  the  unperturbed  charge  and  current 
distribution  by  the  eigenfunction  of  the  atom  in  the  stationary  state 
considered,  and  the  other  component  by  a  solution  corresponding  to  the 
final  state  of  the  Compton  process  (belonging  to  the  continuous  spectrum 
of  the  atom),  which  at  great  distance  from  the  atom  behaves  more  or 
less  as  a  plane  wave.  One  thus  has  a  moving  grating  that  first  of  all 
depends  only  on  the  finite  extension  of  the  atom  and  in  the  second  place 
has  components  no  longer  moving  with  the  same  speed  at  all.  This  gives 
rise  to  a  lack  of  sharpness  of  the  shifted  ray  of  the  scattered  radiation. 

But  one  can  show  that,  from  the  point  of  view  of  quantum  mechanics, 
this  explanation  for  the  lack  of  sharpness  of  the  shifted  ray  is  just  another 
form  of  the  explanation  given  in  the  first  instance  and  which  relies  on  the 
different  directions  of  the  initial  velocities  of  the  electrons  in  the  atom. 


a  Compare  below  Schrodinger's  contribution  and  the  ensuing  discussion  (eds.). 


Discussion 


365 


For  according  to  quantum  mechanics  if 


^  =  f(x,y,z)e- 


is  the  eigenfunction  corresponding  to  a  given  stationary  state  of  the 
atom,  the  function62 


which  one  obtains  by  decomposing  /  in  plane  waves  according  to  Fou- 
rier can  be  interpreted  in  the  sense  that  \ip(p)\  dpxdpvdpz  denotes  the 
probability  that  in  the  given  stationary  state  the  components  of  the 
momentum  of  the  electron  lie  between  px,Py,Pz  and  px  +  dpx,  etc. 
Now,  if  through  the  resulting  velocity  distribution  of  the  electrons  in 
the  atom  one  calculates  the  broadening  of  the  shifted  line  according  to 
the  first  point  of  view,  for  light  of  sufficiently  short  wavelength  with 
respect  to  which  the  electron  can  be  considered  free  in  the  atom  (and 
it  is  only  under  these  conditions  that  the  procedure  is  legitimate),  one 
finds  exactly  the  same  result  as  with  the  other  method  describedO 

Mr  Compton.  —  Jauncey  has  calculated  the  broadening  of  the  mo- 
dified ray  using  essentially  the  method  that  Mr  Pauli  has  just  described. 
Jauncey  assumed,  however,  that  the  velocities  of  the  electron  are  the 
ones  given  by  Bohr's  theory  of  orbital  motions.  The  broadening  thus 
obtained  is  larger  than  that  found  experimentally. 

Mrs  Curie.  —  In  his  very  interesting  report,  Professor  Compton  has 
dwelt  on  emphasising  the  reasons  that  lead  one  to  adopt  the  theory  of 
a  collision  between  a  quantum  and  a  free  electron.  Along  the  same  line 
of  thought,  I  think  it  is  useful  to  point  out  the  following  two  views: 

First,  the  existence  of  collision  electrons  seems  to  play  a  fundamental 
role  in  the  biological  effects  produced  on  living  tissues  by  very  high- 
frequency  radiation,  such  as  the  most  penetrating  7-rays  emitted  by 
radioelements.  If  one  assumes  that  the  biological  effect  may  be  attributed 
to  the  ionisation  produced  in  the  cells  subjected  to  radiation,  this  effect 
cannot  depend  directly  on  the  7-rays,  but  is  due  to  the  emission  of 
secondary  /3-rays  that  accompanies  the  passage  of  the  7-rays  through 
matter.  Before  the  discovery  of  the  collision  electrons,  only  a  single 

a  Pauli  was  possibly  the  first  to  introduce  the  probability  interpretation  of  the  wave 
function  in  momentum  space,  in  a  letter  to  Heisenberg  of  19  October  1926  (Pauli, 
1979,  pp.  347-8).  Cf.  the  footnote  on  p.lH71(«fa.). 


366 


A.  H.  Compton 


mechanism  was  known  for  the  production  of  these  secondary  rays,  that 
consisting  in  the  total  absorption  of  a  quantum  of  radiation  by  the 
atom,  with  the  emission  of  a  photoelectron.  The  absorption  coefficient  r 
relating  to  this  process  varies  with  the  wavelength  A  of  the  primary 
7-radiation,  as  well  as  with  the  density  [p]  of  the  absorbing  matter 
and  the  atomic  number  N  of  the  atoms  composing  it,  according  to 
the  well-known  relation  of  Bragg  and  Peirce  J  =  A7V3A3,  where  A  is 
a  coefficient  that  has  a  constant  value  for  frequencies  higher  than  that 
of  the  K  discontinuity.  If  this  relation  valid  in  the  domain  of  X-rays 
can  be  applied  to  high-frequency  7-rays,  the  resulting  value  of  j  for  the 
light  elements  is  so  weak  that  the  emission  of  photoelectrons  appears 
unable  to  explain  the  biological  effects  of  radiation  on  the  living  tissues 
traversedB 

The  issue  appears  altogether  different  if  one  takes  into  consideration 
the  emission  of  collision  electrons  in  these  tissues,  following  Compton's 
theory.  For  a  collimated  primary  beam  of  7-rays,  the  fraction  of  electro- 
magnetic energy  converted  into  kinetic  energy  of  the  electrons  per  unit 
mass  of  the  absorbing  matter  is  given  by  the  coefficient 

ffq  _  a  *7q 

p  ~  (1  -  2a)2  p  ' 

where  ^  is  the  scattering  coefficient  per  unit  mass  valid  for  medium 
frequency  X-rays,  according  to  the  theory  of  J.  J.  Thomson,  and  is  close 
to  0.2,  while  a  is  Compton's  parameter  a  —  (h  Planck's  constant,  v 
primary  frequency,  m  rest  mass  of  the  electron,  c  speed  of  light).  Taking 
a  =  1.2,  a  value  suitable  for  an  important  group  of  7-rays  (equivalent 
potential  610  kilovolts),  one  finds  ^  =  0.02,  that  is,  2  per  cent  of  the 
primary  energy  is  converted  to  energy  of  the  electron  per  unit  mass 
of  absorbing  matter,  whence  a  possibility  of  interpreting  the  observed 
biological  effects.  To  this  direct  production  of  collision  electrons  along 
the  trajectory  of  the  primary  beam  is  added,  in  an  extended  medium,  a 
supplementary  production,  from  the  fact  that  to  each  of  these  electrons 
corresponds  a  scattered  quantum,  with  a  smaller  value  than  the  primary 
quantum,  and  that  this  scattered  quantum  can  in  turn  be  subject  to 
the  Compton  effect  in  the  medium  through  which  it  propagates,  with 
production  of  a  new  collision  electron  and  of  an  even  smaller  quantum. 
This  process,  indefinitely  repeatable  and  called  the  'multiple  Compton 
effect'  seems  in  fact  to  have  been  observed  by  certain  authors  Q  Not  only 

a  It  is  true  that  several  authors  have  recently  contested  the  legitimacy  of  extending 

the  absorption  law  of  Bragg  and  Peirce  to  X-rays, 
a  [B.]  Rajewsky,  Fortschritte  auf  dem  Gebiet  der  Roentgenstrahlung,  35  (1926),  262. 


Discussion 


367 


is  the  number  of  collision  electrons  thereby  multiplied,  but,  further,  the 
primary  quantum,  reduced  by  successive  collisions  takes  on  values  for 
which  the  absorption  with  emission  of  photoelectrons  becomes  more  and 
more  probable. 

These  facts  have  an  important  repercussion  on  the  technique  of  X-ray 
therapy.  Certain  authors  had,  in  fact,  denied  the  usefulness  of  producing 
very  high- voltage  apparatus  providing  X-rays  of  very  high  frequency  and 
very  high  penetrating  power,  whose  use  is  otherwise  convenient  owing  to 
the  uniformity  of  irradiation  they  allow  one  to  attain.  If  these  rays  had 
been  devoid  of  efficacy,  one  would  have  had  to  give  up  on  their  use.  Such 
is  not  the  case  if  one  adopts  the  point  of  view  of  the  Compton  effect, 
and  it  is  then  legitimate  to  direct  the  technique  towards  the  use  of  high 
voltages. 

Another  interesting  point  of  view  to  examine  is  that  of  the  emission  of 
/?-rays  by  radioactive  bodies.  Professor  Compton  has  pointed  out  that 
among  the  /3-rays  of  secondary  origin,  some  could  be  collision  electrons 
produced  by  the  scattering  of  the  primary  7-rays  on  the  electrons  con- 
tained in  the  matter  they  traverse. 

It  is  in  an  effect  of  this  type  that  Thibaud  thinks  one  may  find  the 
explanation  for  the  appearance  of  the  magnetic  spectra  of  the  secondary 
7-rays.  These  spectra  are  composed  of  lines  that  may  be  attributed  to 
groups  of  photoelectrons  of  the  same  speed,  each  of  which  is  emitted  by 
absorption  in  a  thin  metallic  envelope  of  a  group  of  homogeneous  7-rays 
emitted  by  a  radioelement  contained  in  this  envelope.  Each  line  of  photo- 
electric origin  is  accompanied  by  a  band  beginning  at  the  line  itself  and 
extending  towards  the  region  of  low  velocities.  Thibaud  thinks  that  this 
band  could  be  due  to  photoelectrons  expelled  from  the  screen  by  those 
7-rays  that,  in  this  same  screen,  had  suffered  the  Compton  effect  with 
reduction  of  frequency.  This  interpretation  appears  plausible;  however, 
in  order  to  prove  it,  it  would  be  necessary  to  study  the  structure  of  the 
band  and  find  in  the  same  spectrum  the  band  that  may  be  attributed 
to  the  collision  electrons  corresponding  to  the  scattered  7-rays. 

An  analogous  problem  arises  regarding  the  emission  of  /3-rays  by 
radioactive  bodies  with  negligible  thickness,  so  as  to  eliminate,  as  far 
as  possible,  the  secondary  effects  due  to  the  supports  and  envelopes. 
One  then  observes  a  magnetic  spectrum  that  may  be  attributed  to  the 
radioelement  alone  and  consisting  either  of  a  continuous  band,  or  of 
the  superposition  of  a  continuous  spectrum  and  a  line  spectrum.  The 
latter  has  received  a  satisfactory  interpretation  in  some  recent  papers 
(L.  Meitner,  Ellis,  Thibaud,  etc.). 


368 


A.  H.  Compton 


A  line  is  due  to  a  group  of  photoelectrons  with  the  same  speed  expelled 
from  the  levels  of  the  radioactive  atoms  by  a  group  of  homogeneous 
7-rays  produced  in  their  nuclei.  This  effect  is  called  'internal  conversion', 
since  one  assumes  that  the  quantum  emitted  by  an  atomic  nucleus  is 
reabsorbed  in  the  electron  cloud  [enveloppe  electronique]  of  the  same 
atom.  The  great  majority  of  observed  lines  find  their  explanation  in  this 
hypothesis. 

The  interpretation  of  the  continuous  spectrum  appears  to  present 
more  difficulties.  Some  authors  attribute  it  only  to  the  primary  /3-rays, 
while  others  consider  the  possibility  of  a  secondary  origin  and  invoke 
the  Compton  effect  as  a  possible  cause  of  its  production  (L.  Meitner). 
This  would  be  an  'internal'  Compton  effect,  such  that  a  7-ray  emitted 
from  the  nucleus  of  an  atom  would  experience  a  collision  with  one  of 
the  weakly  bound  electrons  at  the  periphery  of  the  same  atom.  If  that 
were  the  case,  the  velocity  distribution  of  the  emitted  collision  electrons 
would  not  be  arbitrary,  but  would  have  to  conform  to  the  predictions  of 
Compton's  theory. 

I  have  closely  examined  this  problem,  which  has  a  very  complex  appea- 
ranceQ  Each  group  of  homogeneous  7-rays  is  accompanied  by  scattered 
7-rays,  so  that  in  the  diffraction  spectrum  of  the  7-rays,  each  line  should 
experience  a  broadening  of  0.0485  A  units.  The  experiments  on  the 
diffraction  of  7-rays  are  difficult  and  not  very  numerous;  so  far  the 
broadening  effect  has  not  been  reported. 

Each  homogeneous  group  of  7-rays  must  correspond  to  a  group  of 
collision  electrons,  whose  velocity  varies  continuously  from  zero  to  an 
upper  limit  derived  from  Compton's  theory  and  which  in  the  magnetic 
spectrum  corresponds  to  a  band  bounded  sharply  on  the  side  of  the  large 
velocities.  The  same  group  of  7-rays  may  correspond  to  further  groups 
of  photoelectrons  expelled  from  the  different  levels  K,  L,  etc.  of  the  atom 
through  internal  absorption  of  the  scattered  7-rays.  For  each  group  of 
photoelectrons,  the  velocity  of  emission  lies  between  two  well-defined 
limits.  The  upper  limit  corresponds  to  the  surplus  energy  of  the  primary 
7-rays  with  respect  to  the  extraction  work  W  characteristic  of  the  given 
level;  the  lower  limit  corresponds  to  the  surplus  energy,  with  respect  to 
the  same  work,  of  the  7-rays  scattered  in  the  direction  opposite  to  that 
of  the  primary  rays,  and  having  experienced  because  of  that  the  highest 
loss  of  frequency.  In  the  magnetic  spectrum,  each  group  of  photoelectrons 
will  be  represented  by  a  band  equally  well  bounded  on  the  side  of  the 

a  [M.]  Curie,  Le  Journal  de  Physique  et  le  Radium,  7  (1926),  97. 


Discussion 


369 


large  and  of  the  small  velocities,  with  the  same  difference  between  the 
extreme  energies  for  each  band. 

It  is  easy  to  see  that  in  the  same  magnetic  spectrum  the  different  bands 
corresponding  to  the  same  group  of  7-rays  may  partially  overlap,  making 
it  difficult  to  analyse  the  spectrum  comparing  the  distribution  of  /3-rays 
with  that  predicted  by  theory.  For  substances  emitting  several  groups  of 
7-rays,  the  difficulty  must  become  considerable,  unless  there  are  large 
differences  in  their  relative  effectiveness  in  producing  the  desired  effect. 
Let  us  also  point  out  that  the  continuous  spectrum  due  to  the  Compton 
effect  may  be  superposed  with  a  continuous  spectrum  independent  of 
this  effect  (that  may  be  attributed  for  instance  to  the  primary  /3-rays), 

Examination  of  the  experimental  data  available  so  far  does  not  yet 
allow  one  to  draw  conclusions  convincingly.  Most  of  the  spectra  are  very 
complex,  and  their  precise  study  with  respect  to  the  energy  distributions 
of  the  /3-rays  will  require  very  detailed  work.  In  certain  simple  spectra 
such  as  that  of  the  /3-rays  of  RaD,  one  observes  lines  of  photoelectric 
origin  that  may  be  attributed  to  a  single  group  of  monochromatic  7- 
rays.  These  lines  form  the  upper  edge  of  bands  extending  towards  low 
velocities  and  probably  arising  from  photoelectrons  produced  by  the 
scattered  7-rays.  In  certain  magnetic  spectra  obtained  from  the  /3-rays 
of  mesothorium  2  in  the  region  of  low  velocities,  one  notices  in  the 
continuous  spectrum  a  gap  that  might  correspond,  for  the  group  of 
primary  7-rays  with  58  kilovolts,  to  the  separation  between  the  band 
due  to  the  collision  electrons  and  that  due  to  the  photoelectrons  of  the 
scattered  7-rays  @ 

Mr  Schrodinger,  at  the  invitation  of  Mr  Ehrenfest,  draws  on  the 
blackboard  in  coloured  chalk  the  system  of  four  wave  trains  by  which  he 
has  tried  to  represent  the  Compton  effect  in  an  anschaulich  way  [d'une 
fagon  intuitive]^  (Ann.  d.  Phys.  4th  series,  vol.  82  (1927),  257)  Q 

Mr  Bohr.  —  The  simultaneous  consideration  of  two  systems  of  waves 
has  not  the  aim  of  giving  a  causal  theory  in  the  classical  sense,  but  one 
can  show  that  it  leads  to  a  symbolic  analogy.  This  has  been  studied 
in  particular  by  Klein.  Furthermore,  it  has  been  possible  to  treat  the 

a  D.  K.  Yovanovitch  and  A.  Prola,  Comptes  Rendus,  183  (1926),  878. 
b  For  discussions  of  the  notion  of  Anschaulichkeit,  see  sections  13.4.71 14.61  and  18.31 
(eds.). 

c  Schrodinger  (1928,  p.  x)  later  remarked  on  a  mistake  pointed  out  to  him  by 
Ehrenfest  in  the  figure  as  published  in  the  original  paper  (eds.). 


370 


A.  H.  Compton 


problem  in  more  depth  through  the  way  Dirac  has  formulated  Schro- 
dinger's  theory.  We  find  here  an  even  more  advanced  renunciation  of 
Anschaulichkeit  [intuitivite] ,  a  fact  very  characteristic  of  the  symbolic 
methods  in  quantum  theory. 

Mr  Lorentz.  —  Mr  Schrodinger  has  shown  how  one  can  explain  the 
Compton  effect  in  wave  mechanics.  In  this  explanation  one  considers 
the  waves  associated  with  the  electron  (e)  and  the  photon  (ph),  before 
(1)  and  after  (2)  the  encounter.  It  is  natural  to  think  that,  of  these 
four  systems  of  waves  e\,  phi,  e2  and  ph2,  the  latter  two  are  produced 
by  the  encounter.  But  they  are  not  determined  by  ei  and  ph\,  because 
one  can  for  example  choose  arbitrarily  the  direction  of  e2.  Thus,  for 
the  problem  to  be  well-defined,  it  is  not  sufficient  to  know  ei  and  phi; 
another  piece  of  data  is  necessary,  just  as  in  the  case  of  the  collision 
of  two  elastic  balls  one  must  know  not  only  their  initial  velocities  but 
also  a  parameter  that  determines  the  greater  or  lesser  eccentricity  of 
the  collision,  for  instance  the  angle  between  the  relative  velocity  and 
the  common  normal  at  the  moment  of  the  encounter.  Perhaps  one  could 
introduce  into  the  explanation  given  by  Mr  Schrodinger  something  that 
would  play  the  role  of  this  accessory  parameter. 

Mr  Born.  —  I  think  it  is  easy  to  understand  why  three  of  the  four 
waves  have  to  be  given  in  order  for  the  process  to  be  determined;  it 
suffices  to  consider  analogous  circumstances  in  the  classical  theory.  If 
the  motions  of  the  two  particles  approaching  each  other  are  given,  the 
effect  of  the  collision  is  not  yet  determined;  it  can  be  made  determinate 
by  giving  the  position  of  closest  approach  or  an  equivalent  piece  of  data. 
But  in  wave  mechanics  such  microscopic  data  are  not  available.  That 
is  why  it  is  necessary  to  prescribe  the  motion  of  one  of  the  particles 
after  the  collision,  if  one  wants  the  motion  of  the  second  particle  after 
the  collision  to  be  determined.  But  there  is  nothing  surprising  in  this, 
everything  being  exactly  as  in  classical  mechanics.  The  only  difference 
is  that  in  the  old  theory  one  introduces  microscopic  quantities,  such  as 
the  radii  of  the  atoms  that  collide,  which  are  eliminated  from  subsequent 
calculations,  while  in  the  new  theory  one  avoids  the  introduction  of  these 
quantities. 


Notes  to  pp.  329-347 


371 


Notes  to  the  translation 

1  The  words  'reels  ou  apparents'  are  present  only  in  the  French  version. 

2  The  English  version  has  only  four  headings  (starting  with  '(1)  How  are 
the  waves  produced?'),  and  accordingly  omits  the  next  section,  on  'The 
problem  of  the  ether',  and  later  references  to  the  ether. 

3  [d'apres  les  resultats  de  l'etude  des  spectres] 

4  The  English  edition  distinguishes  sections  and  subsections  more 
systematically  than  the  French  edition,  and  in  this  and  other  small 
details  of  layout  we  shall  mostly  follow  the  former. 

5  [rappeler  qu'il  existe  une  theorie  dans  laquelle] 

6  The  words  'le  professeur'  are  present  only  in  the  French  edition. 

7  ['element  de  radiation'  ou  'quantum  de  lumiere'] 

8  This  section  is  present  only  in  the  French  version. 

9  [energie  ondulatoire] 

10  The  original  footnote  gives  page  '145'. 

11  The  English  edition  has  '213'. 

12  [a  part  une  constante] 

13  [perfectionnee] 

14  The  second  part  of  the  footnote  is  printed  only  in  the  English  edition. 

15  The  French  edition  here  includes  the  clause  'qui  a  ete  faite'. 

16  Here  and  in  several  places  in  the  following,  the  French  edition  has 
'simple'  where  the  English  one  has  'single'. 

17  [l'action  directe  du  vecteur  electrique  de  l'onde,  prise  dans  le  sens 
ordinaire] 

18  [dans  la  direction  de  propagation  de  l'onde] 

19  [puisque] 

20  This  footnote  is  only  present  in  the  English  edition. 

21  The  preceding  clause  is  only  present  in  the  French  edition. 

22  [la  periode  de  l'electron  dans  son  mouvement  orbital] 

23  In  the  English  edition  this  reads:  'The  fact  that  the  photoelectrons 
receive  the  momentum  of  the  incident  photon'. 

24  [sur  les  rayons  X  secondaires  et  les  rayons  7] 

25  This  footnote  appears  only  in  the  French  edition. 

26  [ne  fournirent  aucune  preuve  de  l'existence  d'un  spectre  de  raies] 

27  This  word  is  missing  in  the  French  edition. 

28  The  English  edition  reads  '(1+x)'. 

29  [predit] 

30  [on  eut  quelque  confiance  dans  les  electrons  de  recul] 

31  The  French  edition  uses  p  instead  of  r  in  the  text,  but  uses  r  in  the 
discussion  (where  p  is  used  for  matter  density).  The  English  edition  uses 
t. 

32  Footnote  mark  missing  in  the  French  edition. 

33  The  French  edition  gives  (H}. 

34  The  French  edition  gives 

35  This  footnote  is  present  only  in  the  English  edition. 

36  This  word  is  missing  in  the  French  edition. 

37  The  French  edition  reads  'J.  Waller'. 

38  The  page  numbers  for  Wentzel  appear  only  in  the  French  edition. 

39  The  English  edition  describes  only  three  experiments,  omitting  the 


372 


Notes  to  pp.  349-365 


section  on  the  composite  photoelectric  effect  as  well  as  references  to  it 
later. 

40  This  section  is  present  only  in  the  French  edition. 

41  This  and  the  next  section  are  of  course  numbered  (2)  and  (3)  in  the 
English  edition. 

42  [rayonnement  de  fluorescence] 

43  [une  experience  cruciale  entre  les  deux  points  de  vue  a  ete  imaginee  et 
brillamment  realisee] 

44  The  French  edition  includes  also  'en  meme  temps'. 

45  [d'une  fagon  appropriee] 

46  The  French  edition  has  '0\ 

47  The  words  'photons,  c'est-a-dire'  are  present  only  in  the  French  edition. 

48  [au  phenomene  de  la  diffusion  par  les  electrons  individuels] 

49  [ou] 

50  [avec  certitude] 

51  [physiologique] 

52  This  sentence  is  only  printed  in  the  French  edition. 

53  The  English  edition  omits  reference  to  the  ether  and  continues  directly 
with  'affords  no  adequate  picture'. 

54  The  English  edition  continues  directly  with:  'seems  powerless'. 

55  The  English  edition  continues:  'is  also  contrary  to'. 

56  In  the  English  edition  this  reads  simply:  'According  to  the  photon  theory, 
the  production  ....  '. 

57  In  the  English  edition:  'three'. 

58  [processus] 

59  Overbars  have  been  added. 

60  The  French  text  reads  'avec  moins  d'intensite  sur  la  charge  ayant  la  plus 
petite  masse'.  This  is  evidently  an  error:  the  (transverse)  velocity  of  the 
charges  stems  from  the  electric  field,  which  imparts  the  larger  velocity  to 
the  charge  with  the  smaller  mass,  which  therefore  experiences  the  larger 
magnetic  force. 

61  The  printed  text  reads  'ipau)\ 

62  Brackets  in  the  exponent  added. 


The  new  dynamics  of  quanta1 


By  Mr  Louis  de  BROGLIE 


I.  —  Principal  points  of  view0 

1.  First  works  of  Mr  Louis  de  Broglie  [1].  —  In  his  first  works  on  the 
Dynamics  of  Quanta,  the  author  of  the  present  report  started  with  the 
following  idea:  taking  the  existence  of  elementary  corpuscles  of  matter 
and  radiation  as  an  experimental  fact,  these  corpuscles  are  supposed  to 
be  endowed  with  a  periodicity.  In  this  way  of  seeing  things,  one  no  longer 
conceives  of  the  'material  point'  as  a  static  entity  pertaining  to  only  a 
tiny  region  of  space,  but  as  the  centre  of  a  periodic  phenomenon  spread 
all  around  it. 

Let  us  consider,  then,  a  completely  isolated  material  point  and,  in 
a  system  of  reference  attached  to  this  point,  let  us  attribute  to  the 
postulated  periodic  phenomenon  the  appearance  of  a  stationary  wave 
defined  by  the  function 

u(xQ,  y0,  zQ,  t0)  =  f(x0,  yQ,  zQ)  cos  2Tn>0tQ  . 

In  another  Galilean  system  x,  y,  z,  t,  the  material  point  will  have  a 
rectilinear  and  uniform  motion  with  velocity  v  =  (5c.  Simple  application 

a  Our  translation  of  the  title  ('La  nouvelle  dynamique  des  quanta')  reflects  de 
Broglie's  frequent  use  of  the  word  'quantum'  to  refer  to  a  (pointlike)  particle, 
an  association  that  would  be  lost  if  the  title  were  translated  as,  for  example,  'The 
new  quantum  dynamics'  (eds.). 

b  On  beginning  this  exposition,  it  seems  right  to  underline  that  Mr  Marcel  Brillouin 
was  the  true  precursor  of  wave  Mechanics,  as  one  may  realise  by  referring  to  the 
following  works:  C.  R.  168  (1919),  1318;  169  (1919),  48;  171  (1920),  1000.  — 
Journ.  Physique  3  (1922),  65. 


373 


374  L.  de  Broglie 

of  the  Lorentz  transformation  shows  that,  as  far  as  the  phase  is  concer- 
ned, in  the  new  system  the  periodic  phenomenon  has  the  appearance 
of  a  plane  wave  propagating  in  the  direction  of  motion  whose  frequency 
and  phase  velocity  are 

y  =  c2  c 


The  appearance  of  this  phase  propagation  with  a  speed  superior  to  c, 
as  an  immediate  consequence  of  the  theory  of  Relativity,  is  quite  striking. 

There  exists  a  noteworthy  relation  between  v  and  V.  The  formulas 
giving  v  and  V  allow  us  in  fact  to  define  a  refractive  index  of  the 
vacuum,  for  the  waves  of  the  material  point  of  proper  frequency  vq, 
by  the  dispersion  law 


"  =  7  =  ^-3- 

One  then  easily  shows  that 

1  _  1  d{nv) 
v      c    dv  ' 

that  is,  that  the  velocity  v  of  the  material  point  is  equal  to  the  group 
velocity  corresponding  to  the  dispersion  law. 

With  the  free  material  point  being  thus  defined  by  wave  quantities, 
the  dynamical  quantities  must  be  related  back  to  these.  Now,  since  the 
frequency  v  transforms  like  an  energy,  the  obvious  thing  to  do  is  to 
assume  the  quantum  relation 

W  =  hu, 

a  relation  that  is  valid  in  all  systems,  and  from  which  one  derives  the 
undulatory  definition  of  the  proper  mass  mo 

mac2  =  hva  . 

Let  us  write  the  function  representing  the  wave  in  the  system  x,  y,  z,  t 
in  the  form 

u(x,  y,  z,  t)  =  f(x,  y,  z,  t)  cos  —  ip(x,  y,  z,  t)  . 


Denoting  by  W  and  p  the  energy  and  momentum,  one  easily  shows  that 


The  new  dynamics  of  quanta  375 

one  haffl 

dp 


W  =  —  ,     p  =  -grad  tp  . 

The  function  <p  is  then  none  other  than  the  Jacobi  function^  One 
deduces  from  this  that,  in  the  case  of  uniform  rectilinear  motion,  the 
principles  of  least  action  and  of  Fermat  are  identical. 

To  look  for  a  generalisation  of  these  results,  let  us  now  assume  that 
the  material  point  moving  in  a  field  derived  from  a  potential  function 
F(x,  y,  z,  t)  is  represented  by  the  function 

u(x,  y,  z,  t)  =  f(x,  y,  z,  t)  cos  -r<f>{x,  V,  z,  t)  , 

where  p  is  the  Jacobi  function  of  the  old  Dynamics.  This  assimilation 
of  the  phase  into  the  Jacobi  function  then  leads  us  to  assume  the  fol- 
lowing two  relations,  which  establish  a  general  link  between  mechanical 
quantities  and  wave  quantities: 

dp  hv 


W  =  hv  =  —  ,     p  =  —  =  -grad  <p  . 

One  then  deduces  that,  for  the  waves  of  the  new  Mechanics,  the  space 
occupied  by  the  field  has  a  refractive  index 


Hamilton's  equations  show  in  addition  that,  here  again,  the  velocity  of 
the  moving  body  is  equal  to  the  group  velocity^ 

These  conceptions  lead  to  an  interpretation  of  the  stability  conditions 
introduced  by  quantum  theory.  If,  indeed,  one  considers  a  closed  trajec- 
tory, the  phase  must  be  a  single-valued  function  along  this  curve,  and 
as  a  result  one  is  led  to  write  the  Planck  condition1 


j)  (p  ■  dl)  —  k  ■  h     (k  integer) 


The  Sommerfeld  conditions  for  quasi-periodic  motions  may  also  be  de- 
rived. The  phenomena  of  quantum  stability  thus  appear  to  be  analogous 
to  phenomena  of  resonance,  and  the  appearance  of  whole  numbers  here 

a  These  are  the  relativistic  guidance  equations  of  de  Broglie's  early  pilot-wave  theory 

of  1923-24,  for  the  special  case  of  a  free  particle  (eds.). 
b  The  vector  'grad  tp'  is  the  vector  whose  components  are  dtp/dx,  dtp/dy,  dtp/dz. 
a  Usually  called  the  Hamilton-Jacobi  function  (eds.). 

b  In  the  case  of  motion  of  a  point  charge  in  a  magnetic  field,  space  behaves  like  an 
anisotropic  medium  (see  Thesis,  p.  39). 


376 


L.  de  Broglie 


becomes  as  natural  as  in  the  theory  of  vibrating  strings  or  plates.  Ne- 
vertheless, as  we  shall  see,  the  interpretation  that  has  just  been  recalled 
still  constitutes  only  a  first  approximation. 

The  application  of  the  new  conceptions  to  corpuscles  of  light  leads  to 
difficulties  if  one  considers  their  proper  mass  to  be  finite.  One  avoids 
these  difficulties  by  assuming  that  the  properties  of  the  corpuscles  of 
light  are  deduced  from  those  of  ordinary  material  points  by  letting  the 
proper  mass  tend  to  zero.  The  two  speeds  v  and  V  then  both  tend  to  c, 
and  in  the  limit  one  obtains  the  two  fundamental  relations  of  the  theory 
of  light  quanta 

hv  =  W  ,     —  =  p  , 
c 

with  the  aid  of  which  one  can  account  for  Doppler  effects,  radiation 
pressure,  the  photoelectric  effect  and  the  Compton  effect. 

The  new  wave  conception  of  Mechanics  leads  to  a  new  statistical 
Mechanics,  which  allows  us  to  unify  the  kinetic  theory  of  gases  and 
the  theory  of  blackbody  radiation  into  a  single  doctrine.  This  statistics 
coincides  with  that  proposed  independently  by  Mr  Bose  [2];  Mr  Einstein 
[3]  has  shown  its  scope  and  clarified  its  significance.  Since  then,  numerous 
papers  [4]  have  developed  it  in  various  directions. 

Let  us  add  a  few  remarks.  First,  the  author  of  this  report  has  always 
assumed  that  the  material  point  occupies  a  well-defined  position  in 
space.  As  a  result,  the  amplitude  /  should  contain  a  singularity  or  at 
the  very  least  have  abnormally  high  values  in  a  very  small  region.  But, 
in  fact,  the  form  of  the  amplitude  plays  no  role  in  the  results  reviewed 
above.  Only  the  phase  intervenes:  hence  the  name  phase  waves  originally 
given  to  the  waves  of  the  new  Mechanics. 

On  the  other  hand,  the  author,  after  having  reduced  the  old  forms 
of  Dynamics  to  geometrical  Optics,  realised  clearly  that  this  was  only 
a  first  stage.  The  existence  of  diffraction  phenomena  appeared  to  him 
to  require  the  construction  of  a  new  Mechanics  'which  would  be  to 
the  old  Mechanics  (including  that  of  Einstein)  what  wave  Optics  is  to 
geometrical  Optics 'O  It  is  Mr  Schrodinger  who  has  had  the  merit  of 
definitively  constructing  the  new  doctrine. 

2.  The  work  of  Mr  E.  Schrodinger  [5].  —  Mr  Schrodinger's  fundamental 
idea  seems  to  have  been  the  following:  the  new  Mechanics  must  begin 
from  wave  equations,  these  equations  being  constructed  in  such  a  way 

a  Revue  Generate  des  Sciences,  30  November  1924,  p.  633. 


The  new  dynamics  of  quanta 


377 


that  in  each  case  the  phase  of  their  sinusoidal  solutions  should  be  a 
solution  of  the  Jacobi  equation  in  the  approximation  of  geometrical 
Optics. 

Instead  of  considering  waves  whose  amplitude  contains  a  singularity, 
Mr  Schrodinger  systematically  looks  at  waves  of  classical  type,  that  is  to 
say,  waves  whose  amplitude  is  a  continuous  function.  For  him,  the  waves 
of  the  new  Mechanics  are  therefore  represented  by  functions  VP  that  one 
can  always  write  in  the  canonical  form 


a  being  a  continuous  function  and  ip  being  in  the  first  approximation  a 
solution  of  the  Jacobi  equation.  We  may  understand  the  words  'in  the 
first  approximation'  in  two  different  ways:  first,  if  the  conditions  that 
legitimate  the  use  of  geometrical  Optics  are  realised,  the  phase  ip  will 
obey  the  equation  called  the  equation  of  geometrical  Optics,  and  this 
equation  will  have  to  be  identical  to  that  of  Jacobi;  second,  one  must 
equally  recover  the  Jacobi  equation  if  one  makes  Planck's  constant  tend 
to  zero,  because  we  know  in  advance  that  the  old  Dynamics  must  then 
become  valid. 

Let  us  first  consider  the  case  of  the  motion  of  a  single  material  point 
in  a  static  field  derived  from  the  potential  function  F(x,y,z).  In  his 
first  Memoir  Schrodinger  shows  that  the  wave  equation,  at  least  in  the 
approximation  of  Newton's  Mechanics,  is  in  this  case 

hz 

It  is  also  just  this  equation  that  one  arrives  at  beginning  from  the 
dispersion  law  noted  in  the  first  section. 

Having  obtained  this  equation,  Mr  Schrodinger  used  it  to  study  the 
quantisation  of  motion  at  the  atomic  scale  (hydrogen  atom,  Planck 
oscillator,  etc.).  He  made  the  following  fundamental  observation:  in  the 
problems  considered  in  micromechanics,  the  approximations  of  geome- 
trical Optics  are  no  longer  valid  at  all.  As  a  result,  the  interpretation  of 
the  quantum  conditions  proposed  by  L.  de  Broglie  shows  only  that  the 
Bohr-Sommerfeld  formulas  correspond  to  the  approximation  of  the  old 
Dynamics.  To  resolve  the  problem  of  quantisation  rigorously,  one  must 
therefore  consider  the  atom  as  the  seat  of  stationary  waves  satisfying 
certain  conditions.  Schrodinger  assumed,  as  is  very  natural,  that  the  wa- 
ve functions  must  be  finite,  single- valued  and  continuous  over  all  space. 
These  conditions  define  a  set  of  fundamental  functions  (Eigenfunktionen) 


378 


L.  de  Broglie 


for  the  amplitude,  which  represent  the  various  stable  states  of  the  atomic 
system  being  considered.  The  results  obtained  have  proven  that  this  new 
quantisation  method,  to  which  Messrs  Leon  Brillouin,  G.  Wentzel  and 
Kramers  [6]  have  made  important  contributions,  is  the  correct  one. 

For  Mr  Schrodinger,  one  must  look  at  continuous  waves,  that  is  to 
say,  waves  whose  amplitude  does  not  have  any  singularities.  How  can 
one  then  represent  the  'material  point'?  Relying  on  the  equality  of 
the  velocity  of  the  moving  body  and  the  group  velocity,  Schrodinger 
sees  the  material  point  as  a  group  of  waves  (Wellenpaket2)  of  closely 
neighbouring  frequencies  propagating  in  directions  contained  within  the 
interior  of  a  very  narrow  cone.  The  material  point  would  then  not  be 
really  pointlike;  it  would  occupy  a  region  of  space  that  would  be  at 
least  of  the  order  of  magnitude  of  its  wavelength.  Since,  in  intra-atomic 
phenomena,  the  domain  where  motion  takes  place  has  dimensions  of  the 
order  of  the  wavelengths,  there  the  material  point  would  no  longer  be 
defined  at  all;  for  Mr  Schrodinger,  the  electron  in  the  atom  is  in  some 
sense  'smeared  out'  ['fondu'],  and  one  can  no  longer  speak  of  its  position 
or  velocity.  This  manner  of  conceiving  of  material  points  seems  to  us  to 
raise  many  difficulties;  if,  for  example,  the  quantum  of  ultraviolet  light 
occupies  a  volume  whose  dimensions  are  of  the  order  of  its  wavelength, 
it  is  quite  difficult  to  conceive  that  this  quantum  could  be  absorbed  by 
an  atom  of  dimensions  a  thousand  times  smaller. 

Having  established  the  wave  equation  for  a  material  point  in  a  sta- 
tic field,  Mr  Schrodinger  then  turned  to  the  Dynamics  of  many-body 
systems  [la  Dynamique  des  systemes].  Still  limiting  himself  to  the  New- 
toniar0  approximation,  and  inspired  by  Hamilton's  ideas,  he  arrived  at 
the  following  statement:  Given  an  isolated  system  whose  potential  energy 
is  F(qi,q2,...,qn),  the  kinetic  energy  is  a  homogeneous  quadratic  form 
in  the  momenta  pk  and  one  may  write 


the  m    being  functions  of  the  q.  If  m  denotes  the  determinant  m 
and  if  E  is  the  constant  of  energy  in  the  classical  sense,  then  according 
to  Schrodinger  one  must  begin  with  the  wave  equation 


which  describes  the  propagation  of  a  wave  in  the  configuration  space 
a  That  is,  nonrelativistic  (eds.). 


m  PkPl  , 


kl 


The  new  dynamics  of  quanta 
constructed  by  means  of  the  variables  q.  Setting 


379 


2tt 

=  a  cos  —  ip  , 


and  letting  h  tend  to  zero,  in  the  limit  one  indeed  recovers  the  Jacobi 
equation 


To  quantise  an  atomic  system,  one  will  here  again  determine  the  funda- 
mental functions  of  the  corresponding  wave  equation. 

We  cannot  recall  here  the  successes  obtained  by  this  method  (papers 
by  Messrs  Schrodinger,  Fues,3  Manneback  [7],  etc.),  but  we  must  insist 
on  the  difficulties  of  a  conceptual  type  that  it  raises.  Indeed  let  us 
consider,  for  simplicity,  a  system  of  N  material  points  each  possessing 
three  degrees  of  freedom.  The  configuration  space  is  in  an  essential  way 
formed  by  means  of  the  coordinates  of  the  points  and  yet  Mr  Schrodinger 
assumes  that  in  atomic  systems  material  points  no  longer  have  a  clearly 
defined  position.  It  seems  a  little  paradoxical  to  construct  a  configuration 
space  with  the  coordinates  of  points  that  do  not  exist.  Furthermore,  if 
the  propagation  of  a  wave  in  space  has  a  clear  physical  meaning,  it  is 
not  the  same  as  the  propagation  of  a  wave  in  the  abstract  configuration 
space,  for  which  the  number  of  dimensions  is  determined  by  the  number 
of  degrees  of  freedom  of  the  system.  We  shall  therefore  have  to  return 
later  to  the  exact  meaning  of  the  Schrodinger  equation  for  many-body 
systems. 

By  a  transformation  of  admirable  ingenuity,  Mr  Schrodinger  has  shown 
that  the  quantum  Mechanics  invented  by  Mr  Heisenberg  and  developed 
by  Messrs  Born,  Jordan,  Pauli,  etc.,  can  be  translated  into  the  language 
of  wave  Mechanics.  By  comparison  with  Heisenberg's  matrix  elements, 
he  was  able  to  derive  the  expression  for  the  mean  charge  density  of  the 
atom  from  the  functions  'J,  an  expression  to  which  we  shall  return  later. 

The  Schrodinger  equations  are  not  relativistic.  For  the  case  of  a  sin- 
gle material  point,  various  authors  [8]  have  given  a  more  general  wave 
equation  that  is  in  accord  with  the  principle  of  Relativity.  Let  e  be  the 
electric  charge  of  the  point,  V  and  A  the  two  electromagnetic  potentials. 


380 


L.  de  Broglie 
'5,  written  in  complex  form,  must  satisfy  i£] 


The  equation  that  the  wave 


-x 


dx 


4vr2  " 


^■(V2  -A2)  *  =  0  . 


xyz 


As  Mr  O.  Klein  [9]  and  then  the  author  [10]  have  shown,  the  theory  of 
the  Universe  with  five  dimensions  allows  one  to  give  the  wave  equation 
a  more  elegant  form  in  which  the  imaginary  terms,  whose  presence  is 
somewhat  shocking  for  the  physicist,  have  disappeared. 

We  must  also  make  a  special  mention  of  the  beautiful  Memoirs  in 
which  Mr  De  Donder  [11]  has  connected  the  formulas  of  wave  Mechanics 
to  his  general  theory  of  Einsteinian  Gravity. 

3.  The  ideas  of  Mr  Born  [12].  —  Mr  Born  was  struck  by  the  fact  that 
the  continuous  wave  functions  ^>  do  not  allow  us  to  say  where  the 
particle  whose  motion  one  is  studying  is  and,  rejecting  the  concept  of 
the  Wellenpaket,  he  considers  the  waves  \&  as  giving  only  a  statistical 
representation  of  the  phenomena.  Mr  Born  seems  even  to  abandon  the 
idea  of  the  determinism  of  individual  physical  phenomena:  the  Quantum 
Dynamics,  he  wrote  in  his  letter  to  Nature,  'would  then  be  a  singular 

fusion  of  mechanics  and  statistics           A  knowledge  of  \&  enables  us 

to  follow  the  course  of  a  physical  process  in  so  far  as  it  is  quantum 
mechanically  determinate:  not  in  a  causal  sense,  but  in  a  statistical  one'.4 
These  conceptions  were  developed  in  a  mathematical  form  by  their 
author,  in  Memoirs  of  fundamental  interest.  Here,  by  way  of  example, 
is  how  he  treats  the  collision  of  an  electron  and  an  atom.  He  writes  the 
Schrodinger  equation  for  the  electron-atom  system,  and  he  remarks  that 
before  the  collision,  the  wave  W  must  be  expressed  by  the  product  of 
the  fundamental  function^  representing  the  initial  state  of  the  atom  and 
the  plane  wave  function  corresponding  to  the  uniform  rectilinear  motion 
of  the  electron.  During  the  collision,  there  is  an  interaction  between  the 
electron  and  the  atom,  an  interaction  that  appears  in  the  wave  equation 
as  the  mutual  potential  energy  term.  Starting  from  the  initial  form  of 
\t,  Mr  Born  derives  by  methods  of  successive  approximation  its  final 
form  after  the  collision,  in  the  case  of  an  elastic  collision,  which  does  not 
modify  the  internal  state  of  the  atom,  as  well  as  in  the  case  of  an  inelastic 
collision,  where  the  atom  passes  from  one  stable  state  to  another  taking 
energy  from  or  yielding  it  to  the  electron.  According  to  Mr  Born,  the 

a  This  is  the  complex,  time-dependent  Klein-Gordon  equation  in  an  external 

electromagnetic  field  (eds.). 
a  That  is,  eigenfunction  (eds.). 


The  new  dynamics  of  quanta 


381 


final  form  of  \&  determines  the  probability  that  the  collision  may  produce 
this  or  that  result. 

The  ideas  of  Mr  Born  seem  to  us  to  contain  a  great  deal  of  truth,  and 
the  considerations  that  shall  now  be  developed  show  a  great  analogy 
with  them. 


II.  —  Probable  meaning  of  the  continuous  waves  W  [13] 

4.  Case  of  a  single  material  point  in  a  static  field.  —  The  body  of 
experimental  discoveries  made  over  forty  years  seems  to  require  the  idea 
that  matter  and  radiation  possess  an  atomic  structure.  Nevertheless, 
classical  optics  has  with  immense  success  described  the  propagation  of 
light  by  means  of  the  concept  of  continuous  waves  and,  since  the  work  of 
Mr  Schrodinger,  also  in  wave  Mechanics  one  always  considers  continuous 
waves  which,  not  showing  any  singularities,  do  not  allow  us  to  define 
the  material  point.  If  one  does  not  wish  to  adopt  the  hypothesis  of  the 
'Wellenpaket',  whose  development  seems  to  raise  difficulties,  how  can  one 
reconcile  the  existence  of  pointlike  elements  of  energy  with  the  success 
of  theories  that  consider  the  waves  \&?  What  link  must  one  establish 
between  the  corpuscles  and  the  waves?  These  are  the  chief  questions 
that  arise  in  the  present  state  of  wave  Mechanics. 

To  try  to  answer  this,  let  us  begin  by  considering  the  case  of  a  single 
corpuscle  carrying  a  charge  e  and  moving  in  an  electromagnetic  fielcE] 
defined  by  the  potentials  V  and  A .  Let  us  suppose  first  that  the  motion 
is  one  for  which  the  old  Mechanics  (in  relativistic  form)  is  sufficient.  If 
we  write  the  wave  ^  in  the  canonical  form 

2ir 

W  =  a  cos  —  <p  , 
h 

the  function  ip  is  then,  as  we  have  seen,  the  Jacobi  function,  and  the  ve- 
locity of  the  corpuscle  is  defined  by  the  formula  of  Einsteinian  Dynamics 


grad^+fA 

§v_eV  ■  W 
dt  tv 

We  propose  to  assume  by  induction  that  this  formula  is  still  valid 
when  the  old  Mechanics  is  no  longer  sufficient,  that  is  to  say  when 
tp  is  no  longer  a  solution  of  the  Jacobi  equation^  If  one  accepts  this 
hypothesis,  which  appears  justified  by  its5  consequences,  the  formula  (I) 

a  Here  we  leave  aside  the  case  where  there  also  exists  a  gravitational  field.  Besides, 

the  considerations  that  follow  extend  without  difficulty  to  that  case, 
b  Mr  De  Donder  assumes  equation  (I)  as  we  do,  but  denoting  by  ip  not  the  phase  of 


382 


L.  de  Broglie 


completely  determines  the  motion  of  the  corpuscle  as  soon  as  one  is 
given  its  position  at  an  initial  instant.  In  other  words,  the  function  tp, 
just  like  the  Jacobi  function  of  which  it  is  the  generalisation,  determines 
a  whole  class  of  motions,  and  to  know  which  of  these  motions  is  actually 
described  it  suffices  to  know  the  initial  position. 

Let  us  now  consider  a  whole  cloud  of  corpuscles,  identical  and  without 
interaction,  whose  motions,  determined  by  (I),  correspond  to  the  same 
function  tp  but  differ  in  the  initial  positions.  Simple  reasoning  shows  that 
if  the  density  of  the  cloud  at  the  initial  moment  is  equal  to 


where  if  is  a  constant,  it  will  subsequently  remain  constantly  given  by 
this  expression.  We  can  state  this  result  in  another  form.  Let  us  suppose 
there  be  only  a  single  corpuscle  whose  initial  position  we  ignore;  from 
the  preceding,  the  probability  for  its  presence  [sa  probability  de  presence] 
at  a  given  instant  in  a  volume  dr  of  space  will  be 


In  brief,  in  our  hypotheses,  each  wave  Hf  determines  a  'class  of  moti- 
ons', and  each  one  of  these  motions  is  governed  by  equation  (I)  when 
one  knows  the  initial  position  of  the  corpuscle.  If  one  ignores  this  initial 
position,  the  formula  (II)  gives  the  probability  for  the  presence  of  the 
corpuscle  in  the  element  of  volume  dr  at  the  instant  t.  The  wave  \t 
then  appears  as  both  a  pilot  wave  (Fiihrungsfeld  of  Mr  Born)  and  a 
probability  wave.  Since  the  motion  of  the  corpuscle  seems  to  us  to  be 
strictly  determined  by  equation  (I),  it  does  not  seem  to  us  that  there 
is  any  reason  to  renounce  believing  in  the  determinism  of  individual 
physical  phenomena^  and  it  is  in  this  that  our  conceptions,  which  are 
very  similar  in  other  respects  to  those  of  Mr  Born,  appear  nevertheless 
to  differ  from  them  markedly. 

Let  us  remark  that,  if  one  limits  oneself  to  the  Newtonian  approxima- 
tion, in  (I)  and  (II)  one  can  replace:  |^  —  eV  by  tooc2,  and  one  obtains 
the  simplified  forms 


(II) 


the  wave,  but  the  classical  Jacobi  function.  As  a  result  his  theory  and  ours  diverge 
as  soon  as  one  leaves  the  domain  where  the  old  relativistic  Mechanics  is  sufficient, 
a  Here,  that  is,  of  the  motion  of  individual  corpuscles. 


The  new  dynamics  of  quanta 
7r  =  const  •  a2  . 


383 
(II') 


There  is  one  case  where  the  application  of  the  preceding  ideas  is  done 
in  a  remarkably  clear  form:  when  the  initial  motion  of  the  corpuscles  is 
uniform  and  rectilinear  in  a  region  free  of  all  fields.  In  this  region,  the 
cloud  of  corpuscles  we  have  just  imagined  may  be  represented  by  the 
homogeneous  plane  wave6 

*  =  aCosTW(t-^)  ; 

here  a  is  a  constant,  and  this  means  that  a  corpuscle  has  the  same 
probability  to  be  at  any  point  of  the  cloud.  The  question  of  knowing 
how  this  homogeneous  plane  wave  will  behave  when  penetrating  a  region 
where  a  field  is  present  is  analogous  to  that  of  determining  the  form  of 
an  initially  plane  light  wave  that  penetrates  a  refracting  medium.  In 
his  Memoir  'Quantenmechanik  der  Stossvorgange',  Mr  Born  has  given  a 
general  method  of  successive  approximation  to  solve  this  problem,  and 
Mr  Wentzel  [14]  has  shown  that  one  can  thus  recover  the  Rutherford 
formula  for  the  deflection  of  /3-rays  by  a  charged  centre. 

We  shall  present  yet  another  observation  on  the  Dynamics  of  the 
material  point  such  as  results  from  equation  (I):  for  the  material  point 
one  can  always  write  the  equations  of  the  Dynamics  of  Relativity  even 
when  the  approximation  of  the  old  mechanics  is  not  valid,  on  condition 
that  one  attributes  to  the  body  a  variable  proper  mass  Mq  given  by  the 
formula 


h2  Da 
4ir2c2  a 


5.  The  interpretation  of  interference.  —  The  new  Dynamics  allows  us 
to  interpret  the  phenomena  of  wave  Optics  in  exactly  the  way  that  was 
foreseen,  a  long  time  ago  now,  by  Mr  Einstein@  In  the  case  of  light,  the 
wave  \fr  is  indeed  the  light  wave  of  the  classical  theories@£]  If  we  consider 
the  propagation  of  light  in  a  region  strewn  with  fixed  obstacles,  the 
propagation  of  the  wave  ^  will  depend  on  the  nature  and  arrangement 
of  these  obstacles,  but  the  frequency  will  not  vary  (no  Doppler 

a  Cf.  chapter[9](eds.). 

b  We  then  consider  \P  as  the  'light  variable'  without  at  all  specifying  the  physical 

meaning  of  this  quantity, 
c  By  'classical  theories'  de  Broglie  seems  to  mean  scalar  wave  optics.  In  the  general 

discussion  (v.  I508|l.  de  Broglie  states  that  the  physical  nature  of  \P  for  photons  is 

unknown  (eds.). 


384 


L.  de  Broglie 


effect).  The  formulas  (I)  and  (II)  will  then  take  the  form 

u  =  — - — grad  <p  ;      7r  =  const-a  . 
/if 

The  second  of  these  formulas  shows  immediately  that  the  bright  and  dark 
fringes  predicted  by  the  new  theory  will  coincide  with  those  predicted  by 
the  old.  To  record  the  fringes,  for  example  by  photography,  one  can  do  an 
experiment  of  short  duration  with  intense  irradiation,  or  an  experiment 
of  long  duration  with  feeble  irradiation  (Taylor's  experiment);  in  the  first 
case  one  takes  a  mean  in  space,  in  the  second  case  a  mean  in  time,  but 
if  the  light  quanta  do  not  act  on  each  other  the  statistical  result  must 
evidently  be  the  same. 

Mr  Bothe  [15]  believed  he  could  deduce,  from  certain  experiments  on 
the  Compton  effect  in  a  field  of  interference,  the  inexactitude  of  the  first 
formula  written  above,  the  one  giving  the  velocity  of  the  quantum,  but 
in  our  opinion  this  conclusion  can  be  contested. 

6.  The  energy-momentum  tensor  of  the  waves  —  In  one  of  his  Memoirs 
[16],  Mr  Schrodinger  gave  the  expression  for  the  energy- momentum  ten- 
sor in  the  interior  of  a  wave  Following  the  ideas  expounded  here,  the 
wave  W  represents  the  motion  of  a  cloud  of  corpuscles;  examining  the 
expression  given  by  Schrodinger  and  taking  into  account  the  relations 
(I)  and  (II),  one  then  perceives  that  it  decomposes  into  one  part  giving 
the  energy  and  momentum  of  the  particles,  and  another  that  can  be 
interpreted  as  representing  a  state  of  stress  existing  in  the  wave  around 
the  particles.  These  stresses  are  zero  in  the  states  of  motion  consistent 
with  the  old  Dynamics;  they  characterise  the  new  states  predicted  by 
wave  Mechanics,  which  thus  appear  as  'constrained  states'  of  the  ma- 
terial point  and  are  intimately  related  to  the  variability  of  the  proper 
mass  M0.  Mr  De  Donder  has  also  drawn  attention  to  this  fact,  and  he 
was  led  to  denote  the  amplitude  of  the  waves  that  he  considered  by  the 
name  of  'internal  stress  potential'. 

The  existence  of  these  stresses  allows  one  to  explain  how  a  mirror 
reflecting  a  beam  of  light  suffers  a  radiation  pressure,  even  though  ac- 
cording to  equation  (I),  because  of  interference,  the  corpuscles  of  light 
do  not  'strike'  its  surface^ 

7.  The  dynamics  of  many-body  systems.  —  We  must  now  examine  how 
a  Cf.  Schrodinger's  report,  section  II  (eds.). 

b  Cf.  Brillouin's  example  in  the  discussion  at  the  end  of  de  Broglie's  lecture  (eds.). 


The  new  dynamics  of  quanta 


385 


these  conceptions  may  serve  to  interpret  the  wave  equation  proposed  by 
Schrodinger  for  the  Dynamics  of  many-body  systems.  We  have  pointed 
out  above  the  two  difficulties  that  this  equation  raises.  The  first,  relating 
to  the  meaning  of  the  variables  that  serve  to  construct  the  configuration 
space,  disappears  if  one  assumes  that  the  material  points  always  have 
a  quite  definite  position.  The  second  difficulty  remains.  It  appears  to 
us  certain  that  if  one  wants  to  physically  represent  the  evolution  of  a 
system  of  N  corpuscles,  one  must  consider  the  propagation  of  N  waves 
in  space,  each  of  the  N  propagations  being  determined  by  the  action 
of  the  N  —  1  corpuscles  connected  to  the  other  waves@  Nevertheless,  if 
one  focusses  one's  attention  only  on  the  corpuscles,  one  can  represent 
their  states  by  a  point  in  configuration  space,  and  one  can  try  to  relate 
the  motion  of  this  representative  point  to  the  propagation  of  a  fictitious 
wave  W  in  configuration  space.  It  appears  to  us  very  probable  that  the 
wav^H 

*  =  a(<7i,  92,        qn)cos^-(p(t,  qu        qn)  , 

a  solution  of  the  Schrodinger  equation,  is  only  a  fictitious  wave  which, 
in  the  Newtonian  approximation,  plays  for  the  representative  point  of 
the  system  in  configuration  space  the  same  role  of  pilot  wave  and  of 
probability  wave  that  the  wave  \&  plays  in  ordinary  space  in  the  case  of 
a  single  material  point. 

Let  us  suppose  the  system  to  be  formed  of  N  points  having  for  rec- 
tangular coordinates 

Tl     Tl     Tl  TN    TN  N 

j/j,  x2,  x3,  Xj  ,  x2  ,  J- 3  ■ 

In  the  configuration  space  formed  by  means  of  these  coordinates,  the 
representative  point  of  the  system  has  for  [velocity]  components  along 
the  axis  x\ 

1  dtp 

n%k  being  the  mass  of  the  feth  corpuscle.  This  is  the  relation  that  replaces 
(I')  for  many-body  systems.  From  this,  one  deduces  that  the  probability 
for  the  presence  of  the  representative  point  in  the  element  of  volume  dr 

a  Cf.  section  12.41  (eds.). 

b  The  amplitude  a  is  time-independent  because  de  Broglie  is  assuming  the 
time-independent  Schrodinger  equation.  Later  in  his  report,  de  Broglie  applies 
his  dynamics  to  a  non-stationary  wave  function  as  well,  for  the  case  of  an  atomic 
transition  (eds.). 


386 


L.  de  Broglie 


of  configuration  space  is 


7r  dr  —  const -a2  dr  . 


This  new  relation  replaces  relation  (II')  for  many-body  systems.  It 
fully  accords,  it  seems  to  us,  with  the  results  obtained  by  Mr  Born  for 
the  collision  of  an  electron  and  an  atom,  and  by  Mr  Fermi  [17]  for  the 
collision  of  an  electron  and  a  rotatorQ 

Contrary  to  what  happens  for  a  single  material  point,  it  does  not 
appear  easy  to  find  a  wave  '5  that  would  define  the  motion  of  the  system 
taking  Relativity  into  account. 

8.  The  waves  4"  in  micromechanics.  —  Many  authors  think  it  is  illusory 
to  wonder  what  the  position  or  the  velocity  of  an  electron  in  the  atom  is 
at  a  given  instant.  We  are,  on  the  contrary,  inclined  to  believe  that  it  is 
possible  to  attribute  to  the  corpuscles  a  position  and  a  velocity  even  in 
atomic  systems,  in  a  way  that  gives  a  precise  meaning  to  the  variables 
of  configuration  space. 

This  leads  to  conclusions  that  deserve  to  be  emphasised.  Let  us  consi- 
der a  hydrogen  atom  in  one  of  its  stable  states.  According  to  Schrodinger, 
in  spherical  coordinate^  the  corresponding  function  ^>n  is  of  the  form 

^n  =  F(r,  9)  [A  cos  ma  +  B  sin  ma]  ^  ^-Wnt     (m  integer) 


If  we  then  apply  our  formula  (I'),  we  conclude  that  the  electron  is  mo- 
tionless in  the  atom,  a  conclusion  which  would  evidently  be  inadmissible 
in  the  old  Mechanics.  However,  the  examination  of  various  questions 
and  notably  of  the  Zeeman  effect  has  led  us  to  believe  that,  in  its  stable 
states,  the  H  atom  must  rather  be  represented  by  the  function 


which,  being  a  linear  combination  of  expressions  of  the  type  written 

a  Cf.  the  remarks  by  Born  and  Brillouin  in  the  discussion  at  the  end  of  de  Broglie's 
lecture,  and  the  de  Broglie-Pauli  encounter  in  the  general  discussion  at  the  end  of 
the  conference  (pD.I509lff.)  (eds.). 

b  r,  radius  vector;  8,  latitude;  a,  longitude. 


with 


Wn  =  mQc2 


27r2moe4 
n2h2 


The  new  dynamics  of  quanta  387 

above,  is  equally  acceptable^  If  this  is  true  the  electron  will  have,  from 
(I'),  a  uniform  circular  motion  of  speed 

1  mh 
v  =  —  . 

TTlQT  ZTT 

It  will  then  be  motionless  only  in  states  where  m  =  0. 

Generally  speaking,  the  states  of  the  atom  at  a  given  instant  can 
always  be  represented  by  a  function 


Cn^n  , 


the  ^n  being  Schrodinger's  Eigenfunktionen.  In  particular,  the  state  of 
transition  i  — >  j  during  which  the  atom  emits  the  frequency  would 
be  given  by  (this  appears  to  be  in  keeping  with  Schrodinger's  ideas) 

Cj  and  Cj  being  two  functions  of  time  that  change  very  slowly  compared 
with  the  trigonometric  factors  of  the  \l/„,  the  first  varying  from  1  to  0 
and  the  second  from  0  to  1  during  the  transition.  Writing  the  function 
\&  in  the  canonical  form  a  cos  =c-tp}  which  is  always  possible,  formula  (I') 
will  give  the  velocity  of  the  electron  during  the  transition,  if  one  assumes 
the  initial  position  to  be  given.  So  it  does  not  seem  to  be  impossible  to 
arrive  in  this  way  at  a  visual  representation  of  the  transition  f] 

Let  us  now  consider  an  ensemble  of  hydrogen  atoms  that  are  all  in  the 
same  state  represented  by  the  same  function 

*  =  Yl  c"*"  • 

n 

The  position  of  the  electron  in  each  atom  is  unknown  to  us,  but  if,  in  our 
imagination,  we  superpose  all  these  atoms,  we  obtain  a  mean  atom  where 
the  probability  for  the  presence  of  one  of  the  electrons  in  an  element  of 
volume  dr  will  be  given  by  the  formula  (11)0  K  being  determined  by 
the  fact  that  the  total  probability  for  all  the  possible  positions  must  be 

a  In  his  memoir,  'Les  moments  de  rotation  et  le  magnetisme  dans  la  mecanique 
ondulatoire'  {Journal  de  Physique  8  (1927),  74),  Mr  Leon  Brillouin  has  implicitly 
assumed  the  hypothesis  that  we  formulate  in  the  text. 

a  In  this  example,  de  Broglie  is  applying  his  dynamics  to  a  case  where  the  wave 
function  \&  has  a  time-dependent  amplitude  a  (eds.). 

b  In  this  section  on  atomic  physics  ('micromechanics')  de  Broglie  considers  the 
non-relativistic  approximation,  using  the  limiting  formula  (I')  —  except  in  this 
paragraph  where  he  reverts  to  the  relativistic  formulas  (I)  and  (II),  for  the  purpose 
of  comparison  with  the  relativistic  formulas  for  charge  and  current  density  obtained 
by  other  authors  (eds.). 


388 


L.  de  Broglie 


equal  to  unity.  The  charge  density  p  and  the  current  density  J  —  pv 
in  the  mean  atom  are  then,  from  (I)  and  (II), 


and  these  formulas  coincide,  apart  from  notation,  with  those  of  Messrs 
Gordon,  Schrodinger  and  0.  Klein  [18]. 

Limiting  ourselves  to  the  Newtonian  approximation,  and  for  a  moment 
denoting  by  '5  the  wave  written  in  complex  form,  and  by  ^  the  conjugate 
function,  it  follows  that 


This  is  the  formula  to  which  Mr  Schrodinger  was  led  in  reformulating 
the  matrix  theory;  it  shows  that  the  electric  dipole  moment  of  the  mean 
atom  during  the  transition  i  — >  j  contains  a  term  of  frequency  i/y ,  and 
thus  allows  us  to  interpret  Bohr's  frequency  relation. 

Today  it  appears  certain  that  one  can  predict  the  mean  energy  radia- 
ted by  an  atom  by  using  the  Maxwell-Lorentz  equations,  on  condition 
that  one  introduces  in  these  equations  the  mean  quantities  p  and  p~v 
which  have  just  been  definedO  One  can  thus  give  the  correspondence 
principle  an  entirely  precise  meaning,  as  Mr  Debye  [19]  has  in  fact  shown 
in  the  particular  case  of  motion  with  one  degree  of  freedom.  It  seems 
indeed  that  classical  electromagnetism  can  from  now  on  retain  only  a 
statistical  value;  this  is  an  important  fact,  whose  meaning  one  will  have 
to  try  to  explore  more  deeply. 

To  study  the  interaction  of  radiation  with  an  ensemble  of  atoms,  it 
is  rather  natural  to  consider  a  'mean  atom',  immersed  in  a  'mean  light' 
which  one  defines  by  a  homogeneous  plane  wave  of  the  vector  potential. 
The  density  p  of  the  mean  atom  is  perturbed  by  the  action  of  the 
light  and  one  deduces  from  this  the  scattered  radiation.  This  method, 
which  gives  good  mean  predictions,  is  related  more  or  less  directly  to 
the  theories  of  scattering  by  Messrs  Schrodinger  and  Klein  [20],  to  the 
theory  of  the  Compton  effect  by  Messrs  Gordon  and  Schrodinger  [21], 
and  to  the  Memoirs  of  Mr  Wentzel  [22]  on  the  photoelectric  effect  and 
the  Compton  effect,  etc.  The  scope  of  this  report  does  not  permit  us  to 
dwell  any  further  on  this  interesting  work. 


J 


p  =  const -a2  =  const  -    $  . 


a  Cf.  Schrodinger's  report,  p. 14541  and  the  ensuing  discussion,  and  section |4~5"U eds.). 


The  new  dynamics  of  quanta 


389 


9.  Conclusions  and  remarks.  —  So  far  we  have  considered  the  corpuscles 
as  'exterior'  to  the  wave  'J,  their  motion  being  only  determined  by  the 
propagation  of  the  wave.  This  is,  no  doubt,  only  a  provisional  point 
of  view:  a  true  theory  of  the  atomic  structure  of  matter  and  radiation 
should,  it  seems  to  us,  incorporate  the  corpuscles  in  the  wave  phenome- 
non by  considering  singular  solutions  of  the  wave  equations.  One  should 
then  show  that  there  exists  a  correspondence  between  the  singular  waves 
and  the  waves  such  that  the  motion  of  the  singularities  is  connected 
to  the  propagation  of  the  waves  '5  by  the  relation  (I)  0  In  the  case  of  no 
[external]  field,  this  correspondence  is  easily  established,  but  it  is  not  so 
in  the  general  case. 

We  have  seen  that  the  quantities  p  and  p~v  appearing  in  the  Maxwell- 
Lorentz  equations  must  be  calculated  in  terms  of  the  functions  4",  but 
that  does  not  suffice  to  establish  a  deep  link  between  the  electromagnetic 
quantities  and  those  of  wave  Mechanics.  To  establish  this  linkp  one 
should  probably  begin  with  singular  waves,  for  Mr  Schrodinger  has  very 
rightly  remarked  that  the  potentials  appearing  in  the  wave  equations  are 
those  that  result  from  the  discontinuous  structure  of  electricity  and  not 
those  that  could  be  deduced  from  the  functions  "J. 

Finally,  we  point  out  that  Messrs  Uhlenbeck  and  Goudsmit's  hypothe- 
sis of  the  magnetic  electron,  so  necessary  to  explain  a  great  number  of 
phenomena,  has  not  yet  found  its  place  in  the  scope  of  wave  Mechanics. 

III.  —  Experiments  showing  preliminary  direct  evidence  for 
the  new  Dynamics  of  the  electron 

10.  Phenomena  whose  existence  is  suggested  by  the  new  conceptions.  — 
The  ideas  that  have  just  been  presented  lead  one  to  consider  the  motion 
of  an  electron  as  guided  by  the  propagation  of  a  certain  wave.  In  ma- 
ny usual  cases,  the  old  Mechanics  remains  entirely  adequate  as  a  first 
approximation;  but  our  new  point  of  view,  as  Elsasser7  [23]  pointed  out 
already  in  1925,  necessarily  raises  the  following  question:  'Could  one  not 
observe  electron  motions  that  the  old  Mechanics  would  be  incapable  of 
predicting,  and  which  would  therefore  be  characteristic  of  wave  Mecha- 
nics? In  other  words,  for  electrons,  could  one  not  find  the  analogue  of 
the  phenomena  of  diffraction  and  interference?  0 

a  Cf.  section l2XTI(e<k.). 

a  The  few  attempts  made  till  now  in  this  direction,  notably  by  Mr  Bateman  (Nature 
118  (1926),  839)  and  by  the  author  (Ondes  et  mouvements,  Chap.  VIII,  and  C.  R. 
184  (1927),  81)  can  hardly  be  regarded  as  satisfactory. 

b  This  is  not  a  quotation:  these  words  do  not  appear  in  the  cited  1925  paper  by 


390 


L.  de  Broglie 


These  new  phenomena,  if  they  exist,  must  depend  on  the  wavelength 
of  the  wave  associated  with  the  electron  motion.  For  an  electron  of  speed 
v,  the  fundamental  formula 

hv 


P=V 


gives 


A-  —  -- -  hV^^ 


v      p  m,QV 
If  (3  is  not  too  close  to  1,  it  suffices  to  write 

A  =  — ^—  . 


rriQV 

Let  V  be  the  potential  difference,  expressed  in  volts,  that  is  capable  of 
imparting  the  speed  v  to  the  electron;  numerically,  for  the  wavelength 
in  centimetres,  one  will  hav^f] 

,      7.28      12.25     ,„  8 
A  =  =  — =-  x  10~8  . 

v  Vv 

To  do  precise  experiments,  it  is  necessary  to  use  electrons  of  at  least 
a  few  volts:  from  which  one  has  an  upper  limit  for  A  of  a  few  angstroms. 
One  then  sees  that,  even  for  slow  electrons,  the  phenomena  being  sought 
are  analogous  to  those  shown  by  X-rays  and  not  to  those  of  ordinary 
light.  As  a  result,  it  will  be  difficult  to  observe  the  diffraction  of  a 
beam  of  electrons  by  a  small  opening,  and  if  one  wishes  to  have  some 
chance  of  obtaining  diffraction  by  a  grating,  one  must  either  consider 
those  natural  three-dimensional  gratings,  the  crystals,  or  use  ordinary 
gratings  under  a  very  grazing  incidence,  as  has  been  done  recently  for 
X-rays.  On  making  slow  electrons  pass  through  a  crystalline  powder  or 
an  amorphous  substance,  one  could  also  hope  to  notice  the  appearance  of 
rings  analogous  to  those  that  have  been  obtained  and  interpreted  in  the 
X-ray  domain  by  Messrs  Hull,  Debye  and  Scherrer,  Debierne,  Keesom 
and  De  Smedt,  etc. 

The  exact  theoretical  prediction  of  the  phenomena  to  be  observed 

Elsasser.  Further,  it  was  de  Broglie  who  first  suggested  electron  diffraction,  in  a 
paper  of  f923  (see  section [2. 2. fll  (eds.). 
a  Here  we  have  adopted  the  following  values: 

h  =  6.55  x  10-27  erg-seconds  , 
m0  =  9  X  10~2S  gr  , 

e  =  4.77  X  f0"10  e.s.u.  . 


The  new  dynamics  of  quanta 


391 


along  these  lines  is  still  not  very  advanced.  Let  us  consider  the  diffraction 
of  a  beam  of  electrons  with  the  same  velocity  by  a  crystal;  the  wave  IP 
will  propagate  following  the  general  equation,  in  which  one  has  to  insert 
the  potentials  created  by  the  atoms  of  the  crystal  considered  as  centres  of 
force.  One  does  not  know  the  exact  expression  for  these  potentials  but, 
because  of  the  regular  distribution  of  atoms  in  the  crystal,  one  easily 
realises  that  the  scattered  amplitude  will  show  maxima  in  the  directions 
predicted  by  Mr  von  Laue's  theory.  Because  of  the  role  of  pilot  wave 
played  by  the  wave  ^,  one  must  then  observe  a  selective  scattering  of 
the  electrons  in  these  directions. 

Using  his  methods,  Mr  Born  has  studied  another  problem:  that  of  the 
collision  of  a  narrow  beam  of  electrons  with  an  atom.  According  to  him, 
the  curve  giving  the  number  of  electrons  that  have  suffered  an  inelastic 
collision  as  a  function  of  the  scattering  angle  must  show  maxima  and 
minima;  in  other  words,  these  electrons  will  display  rings  on  a  screen 
placed  normally  to  the  continuation  of  the  incident  beam. 

It  would  still  be  premature  to  speak  of  agreement  between  theory 
and  experiment;  nevertheless,  we  shall  present  experiments  that  have 
revealed  phenomena  showing  at  least  broadly  the  predicted  character. 

11.  Experiments  by  Mr  E.G.  Dymond  [24].  —  Without  feeling  obliged 
to  follow  the  chronological  order,  we  shall  first  present  Mr  Dymond's 
experiments: 

A  flask  of  purified  helium  contained  an  'electron  gun',  which  consisted 
of  a  brass  tube  containing  an  incandescent  filament  of  tungsten  and  in 
whose  end  a  slit  was  cut.  This  gun  discharged  a  well-collimated  beam 
of  electrons  into  the  gas,  with  a  speed  determined  by  the  potential 
difference  (50  to  400  volts)  established  between  the  filament  and  the  wall 
of  the  tube.  The  wall  of  the  flask  had  a  slit  through  which  the  electrons 
could  enter  a  chamber  where  the  pressure  was  kept  low  by  pumping  and 
where,  by  curving  their  trajectories,  a  magnetic  field  brought  them  onto 
a  Faraday  cylinder. 

Mr  Dymond  first  kept  the  orientation  of  the  gun  fixed  and  measured 
the  speed  of  the  electrons  thus  scattered  by  a  given  angle.  He  noticed 
that  most  of  the  scattered  electrons  have  the  same  energy  as  the  primary 
electrons;  they  have  therefore  suffered  an  elastic  collision.  Quite  a  large 
number  of  electrons  have  a  lower  speed  corresponding  to  an  energy  loss 
from  about  20  to  55  volts:  this  shows  that  they  made  the  He  atom  pass 
from  the  normal  state  l1^  to  the  excited  state  21S.  One  also  observes  a 
lower  proportion  of  other  values  for  the  energy  of  the  scattered  electrons; 


392 


L.  de  Broglie 


we  shall  not  discuss  the  interpretation  that  Mr  Dymond  has  given  them, 
because  what  interests  us  most  here  is  the  variation  of  the  number  of 
scattered  particles  with  the  scattering  angle  9.  To  determine  this  number, 
Mr  Dymond  varied  the  orientation  of  the  gun  inside  the  flask,  and  for 
different  scattering  angles  collected  the  electrons  that  suffered  an  energy 
loss  equivalent  to  20  to  55  volts;  he  constructed  a  series  of  curves  of  the 
angular  distribution  of  these  electrons  for  different  values  of  the  tension 
V  applied  to  the  electron  gun.  The  angular  distribution  curve  shows 
a  very  pronounced  maximum  for  a  low  value  of  9,  and  this  maximum 
appears  to  approach  9  =  0  for  increasing  values  of  V. 

Another,  less  important,  maximum  appears  towards  9  =  50°  for  a 
primary  energy  of  about  a  hundred  volts,  and  then  moves  for  increasing 
values  of  V  towards  increasing  9.  Finally,  a  very  sharp  maximum  appears 
for  a  primary  energy  of  about  200  volts  at  9  —  30°,  and  then  seems 
independent  of  V.  These  facts  are  summarised  in  the  following  table 
given  by  Dymond:8 

V  (volts)  Positions  of  the  maxima  (°) 


48.9 

24 

72.3 

8 

97.5 

5 

50 

195 

<  2.5 

30 

59 

294 

<  2.5 

30 

69 

400 

<  2.5 

30 

70 

The  above  results  must  very  probably  be  interpreted  with  the  aid 
of  the  new  Mechanics  and  are  to  be  related  to  Mr  Born's  predictions. 
Nevertheless,  as  Mr  Dymond  very  rightly  says,  'the  theoretical  side  of 
the  problem  is  however  not  yet  sufficiently  advanced  to  give  detailed 
information  on  the  phenomena  to  be  expected,  so  that  the  results  above 
reported  cannot  be  said  to  substantiate  the  wave  mechanics  except  in 
the  most  general  way'.9 

12.  Experiments  by  Messrs  C.  Davisson  and  L.  H.  Germer.  —  In  1923, 
Messrs  Davisson  and  Kunsman  [25]  published  peculiar  results  on  the 
scattering  of  electrons  at  low  speed.  They  directed  a  beam  of  electrons, 
accelerated  by  a  potential  difference  of  less  than  1000  volts,  onto  a  block 
of  platinum  at  an  incidence  of  45°  and  determined  the  distribution 
of  scattered  electrons  by  collecting  them  in  a  Faraday  cylinder.  For 
potentials  above  200  volts,  one  observed  a  steady  decrease  in  scattering 
for  increasing  values  of  the  deviation  angle,  but  for  smaller  voltages 


The  new  dynamics  of  quanta 


393 


the  curve  of  angular  variation  showed  two  maxima.  By  covering  the 
platinum  with  a  deposit  of  magnesium,  one  obtained  a  single  small 
maximum  for  electrons  of  less  than  150  volts.  Messrs  Davisson  and 
Kunsman  attributed  the  observed  phenomena  to  the  action  of  various 
layers  of  intra-atomic  electrons  on  the  incident  electrons,  but  it  seems 
rather,  according  to  Elsasser's  opinion,  that  the  interpretation  of  these 
phenomena  is  a  matter  for  the  new  Mechanics. 

Resuming  analogous  experiments  with  Mr  Germer  [26],  Mr  Davisson 
obtained  very  important  results  this  year,  which  appear  to  confirm  the 
general  predictions  and  even  the  formulas  of  Wave  Mechanics. 

The  two  American  physicists  sent  homogeneous  beams  of  electrons 
onto  a  crystal  of  nickel,  cut  following  one  of  the  111  faces  of  the  regular 
octahedron  (nickel  is  a  cubic  crystal).  The  incidence  being  normal,  the 
phenomenon  necessarily  had  to  show  the  ternary  symmetry  around  the 
direction  of  the  incident  beam.  In  a  cubic  crystal  cut  in  this  manner, 
the  face  of  entry  is  cut  obliquely  by  three  series  of  111  planes,  three 
series  of  100  planes,  and  six  series  of  110  planes.  If  one  takes  as  positive 
orientation  of  the  normals  to  these  series  of  planes  the  one  forming  an 
acute  angle  with  the  face  of  entry,  then  these  normals,  together  with  the 
direction  of  incidence,  determine  distinguished  azimuths,  which  Messrs 
Davisson  and  Germer  call  azimuths  (111),  (100),  (110),  and  for  which 
they  studied  the  scattering;  because  of  the  ternary  symmetry,  it  evidently 
suffices  to  explore  a  single  azimuth  of  each  type. 

Let  us  place  ourselves  at  one  of  the  distinguished  azimuths  and  let 
us  consider  only  the  distribution  of  Ni  atoms  on  the  face  of  entry  of 
the  crystal,  which  we  assume  to  be  perfect.  These  atoms  form  lines  per- 
pendicular to  the  azimuth  being  considered  and  whose  equidistance  d  is 
known  from  crystallographic  data.  The  different  directions  of  scattering 
being  identified  in  the  azimuthal  plane  by  the  angle  9  of  co-latitude,  the 
waves  scattered  by  the  atoms  in  the  face  of  entry  must  be  in  phase  in 
directions  such  that  one  has 


One  must  then  expect  to  observe  maxima  in  these  directions,  for  the 
scattering  of  the  electrons  by  the  crystal. 

Now  here  is  what  Messrs  Davisson  and  Germer  observed.  By  gradually 
varying  the  voltage  V  that  accelerates  the  electrons  one  observes,  in  the 
neighbourhood  of  certain  values  of  V,  very  distinct  scattering  maxima 
in  directions  whose  co-latitude  is  accurately  given  by  the  above  formula 


(n  integer)  . 


394 


L.  de  Broglie 


(provided  one  sets  in  general  n  =  1,  and  sometimes  n  =  2).  There  is 
direct  numerical  confirmation  of  the  formulas  of  the  new  Dynamics;  this 
is  evidently  a  result  of  the  highest  importance. 

However,  the  explanation  of  the  phenomenon  is  not  complete:  one 
must  explain  why  the  scattering  maxima  are  observed  only  in  the  neigh- 
bourhood of  certain  particular  values  of  V,  and  not  for  all  values  of  V. 
One  interpretation  naturally  comes  to  mind:  we  assumed  above  that  only 
the  face  of  entry  of  the  crystal  played  a  role,  but  one  can  assume  that 
the  electron  wave  penetrates  somewhat  into  the  crystal  and,  further, 
in  reality  the  face  of  entry  will  never  be  perfect  and  will  be  formed  by 
several  parallel  111  planes  forming  steps.  In  these  conditions,  it  is  not 
sufficient  to  consider  the  interference  of  the  waves  scattered  by  a  single 
reticular  plane  at  the  surface,  one  must  take  into  account  the  interference 
of  the  waves  scattered  by  several  parallel  reticular  planes.  In  order  for 
there  to  be  a  strong  scattering  in  a  direction  9,  9  and  V  must  then  satisfy 
not  only  the  relation  written  above,  but  also  another  relation  which  is 
easy  to  find;  the  scattering  must  then  be  selective,  that  is  to  say,  occur 
with  [significant]  intensity  only  for  certain  values  of  V,  as  experiment 
shows.  Of  course,  the  theory  that  has  just  been  outlined  is  a  special  case 
of  Laue's  general  theory. 

Unfortunately,  as  Messrs  Davisson  and  Germer  have  themselves  re- 
marked, in  order  to  obtain  an  exact  prediction  of  the  facts  in  this  way, 
it  is  necessary  to  attribute  to  the  separation  of  the  111  planes  next  to 
the  face  of  entry  a  smaller  value  (of  about  30%)  than  that  provided  by 
Crystallography  and  by  direct  measurements  by  means  of  X-rays.  It  is 
moreover  not  unreasonable  to  assume  that  the  very  superficial  reticular 
planes  have  a  spacing  different  from  those  of  the  deeper  planes,  and  one 
can  even  try  to  connect  this  idea  to  our  current  conceptions  concerning 
the  equilibrium  of  crystalline  gratings. 

If  one  accepts  the  preceding  hypothesis,  the  scattering  must  be  produ- 
ced by  a  very  small  number  of  reticular  planes  in  the  entirely  superficial 
layer  of  the  crystal;  the  concentration  of  electrons  in  preferred  directions 
must  then  be  much  less  pronounced  than  in  the  case  of  scattering  by  a 
whole  unlimited  spatial  grating.  Is  it  nevertheless  sufficient  in  order  to 
explain  the  'peaks'  observed  by  Davisson  and  Germer?  To  this  question, 
Mr  Patterson  has  recently  provided  an  affirmative  answer,  by  showing 
that  the  involvement  of  just  two  superficial  reticular  planes  already 
suffices  to  predict  exactly  the  variations  of  the  selective  reflection  of 


The  new  dynamics  of  quanta 


395 


electrons  observed  in  the  neighbourhood  of 

6  =  50°  ,     V  =  54  volts  . 

To  conclude,  we  can  do  no  better  than  quote  the  conclusion  of  Mr 
Patterson  [27]:  'The  agreement  of  these  results  with  calculation  seems 
to  indicate  that  the  phenomenon  can  be  explained  as  a  diffraction  of 
waves  in  the  outermost  layers  of  the  crystal  surface.  It  also  appears 
[....]  that  a  complete  analysis  of  the  results  of  such  experiments  will  give 
valuable  information  as  to  the  conditions  prevailing  in  the  actual  surface, 
and  that  a  new  method  has  been  made  available  for  the  investigation  of 
the  structure  of  crystals  in  a  region  which  has  up  to  the  present  almost 
completely  escaped  observation'.10 

13.  Experiments  by  Messrs  G.  P.  Thomson  and  A.  Reid  [28].  —  Very 
recently,  Messrs  Thomson  and  Reid  have  made  the  following  results 
known:  if  a  narrow  pencil  of  homogeneous  cathode  rays  passes  normally 
through  a  celluloid  film,  and  is  then  received  on  a  photographic  plate 
placed  parallel  to  the  film  at  10  cm  behind  it,  one  observes  rings  around 
the  central  spot.  With  rays  of  13  000  volts,  a  photometric  examination 
has  revealed  the  existence  of  three  rings.  By  gradually  increasing  the 
energy  of  the  electrons,  one  sees  the  rings  appear  around  2500  volts, 
and  they  have  been  observed  up  to  16  500  volts.  The  radii  of  the  rings 
decrease  when  the  energy  increases  and,  it  seems,  approximately  in 
inverse  proportion  to  the  speed,  that  is,  to  our  wavelength  A. 

These  observations  are  very  interesting,  and  again  confirm  the  new 
conceptions  in  broad  outline.  Is  it  a  question  here  of  an  atomic  pheno- 
menon analogous  to  those  observed  by  Dymond,  or  else  of  a  phenomenon 
of  mutual  interference  falling  into  one  of  the  categories  studied  by  Debye 
and  Scherrer,  Hull,  Debierne,  Keesom  and  De  Smedt?  We  are  unable  to 
say,  and  we  limit  ourselves  to  remarking  that  here  the  electrons  used  are 
relatively  fast;  this  is  interesting  from  the  experimental  point  of  view, 
because  it  is  much  easier  to  study  electrons  of  a  few  thousand  volts  than 
electrons  of  about  a  hundred  volts. 


396 


L.  de  Broglie 
BibliographjH 


[I]  Louis  de  Broglie,  C.  R.,  177  (1923),  507,  548  and  630;  179  (1924),  39, 
676  and  1039.  Doctoral  thesis,  November  1924  (Masson,  publisher),  An- 
nates de  Physique  (10),  III  [(1925)],  22.  J.  de  Phys.  (6),  VII  [(1926)],  1. 
[2]  S.  N.  Bose,  Zts.  f.  Phys.,  27  (1924),  384. 

[3]  A.  Einstein,  Bed.  Per.  (1924),  261;  (1925),  [3]. 
[4]  P.  Jordan,  Zts.  f.  Phys.,  33  (1925),  649. 
E.  Schrodinger,  Physik.  Zts.,  27  (1926),  95. 
P.  Dirac,  Proc.  Roy.  Soc.  A,  112  (1926),  661. 
E.  Fermi,  Zts.  f.  Phys.,  36  (1926),  902. 

L.  S.  Ornstein  and  H.  A.  Kramers,  Zts.  f.  Phys.,  42  (1927),  481. 
[5]  E.  Schrodinger,  Ann.  der  Phys.,  79  (1926),  361,  489  and  734;  80 
(1926),  437;  81  (1926),  109.  Naturwissensch.,  14th  year  [(1926)],  664. 
Phys.  Rev.,  28  (1926),  1051. 

[6]  L.  Brillouin,  C.  R.,  183  (1926),  24  and  270.  J.  de  Phys.  [(6)],  VII 
(1926),  353. 

G.  Wentzel,  Zts.  f.  Phys.,  38  (1926),  518. 

H.  A.  Kramers,  Zts.  f.  Phys.,  39  (1926),  828. 

[7]  E.  Fues,  Ann.  der  Phys.,  80  (1926),  367;  81  (1926),  281. 

C.  Manneback,  Physik.  Zts.,  27  (1926),  563;  28  (1927),  72. 

[8]  L.  de  Broglie,  C.  R.,  183  (1926),  272.  J.  de  Phys.  (6),  VII  (1926), 

332. 

O.  Klein,  Zts.  f.  Phys.,  37  (1926),  895. 
[V.]  Fock,  Zts.  f.  Phys.,  38  (1926),  242. 
W.  Gordon,  Zts.  f.  Phys.,  40  (1926),  117. 
L.  Flamm,  Physik.  Zts.,  27  (1926),  600. 
[9]  O.  Klein,  loc.  cit.  in  [8]. 

[10]  L.  de  Broglie,  J.  de  Phys.  (6),  VIII  (1927),  65. 
(See  also  L.  Rosenfeld,  Acad.  Roy.  Belg.  (5),  13,  n.  6.) 

[II]  Th.  De  Donder,  C.  R.,  182  (1926),  1512;  183  (1926),  22  (with  Mr 
Van  den  Dungen);  183  (1926),  594;  184  (1927),  439  and  810.  Acad.  Roy. 
Belg.,  sessions  of  9  October  1926,  of  8  January,  5  February,  5  March  and 
2  April  1927. 

[12]  M.  Born,  Zts.  f.  Phys.,  37  (1926),  863;  38  (1926),  803;  40  (1926), 
167.  Nature,  119  (1927),  354. 

[13]  L.  de  Broglie,  C.  R.,  183  (1926),  447,  and  184  (1927),  273.  Nature, 


a  The  style  of  the  bibliography  has  been  slightly  modernised  and  uniformised  with 
that  used  in  the  other  reports  (eds.). 


The  new  dynamics  of  quanta 


397 


118  (1926),  441.  J.  de  Phys.  (6),  VIII  (1927),  225.  C.  R.,  185  (1927), 
380. 

(See  also  E.  Madelung,  Zts.  f.  Phys.,  40  (1926),  322.) 

[14]  G.  Wentzel,  Zts.  f.  Phys.,  40  (1926),  590. 

[15]  W.  Bothe,  Zts.  f.  Phys.,  41  (1927),  332. 

[16]  E.  Schrodinger,  Ann.  der  Phys.,  82  (1927),  265. 

[17]  E.  Fermi,  Zts.  f.  Phys.,  40  (1926),  399. 

[18]  W.  Gordon  and  E.  Schrodinger,  loc.  cit.  in  [8]  and  [16]. 

O.  Klein,  Zts.  f.  Phys.,  41  (1927),  407. 

[19]  P.  Debye,  Physik.  Zts.,  27  (1927),  170. 

[20]  E.  Schrodinger  and  O.  Klein,  loc.  cit.  in  [5]  and  [18]. 

[21]  W.  Gordon,  loc.  cit.  in  [8]. 

E.  Schrodinger,  Ann.  der  Phys.,  82  (1927),  257. 

[22]  G.  Wentzel,  Zts.  f.  Phys.,  43  (1927),  1;  41  (1927),  828. 

(See  also  G.  Beck,  Zts.  f.  Phys.,  41  (1927),  443;  J.  R.  Oppenheimer,  Zts. 

f.  Phys.,  41  (1927),  268.) 

[23]  [W.]  Elsasser,  Naturwissensch.,  13  (1925),  711. 

[24]  E.  G.  Dymond,  Nature,  118  (1926),  336.  Phys.  Rev.,  29  (1927),  433. 

[25]  C.  Davisson  and  C.  H.  Kunsman,  Phys.  Rev.,  22  (1923),  242. 

[26]  C.  Davisson  and  L.  H.  Germer,  Nature,  119  (1927),  558. 

[27]  A.  L.  Patterson,  Nature,  120  (1927),  46. 

[28]  C.  P.  Thomson  and  A.  Reid,  Nature,  119  (1927),  890. 


398 


L.  de  Broglie 


Discussion  of  Mr  de  Broglie's  report 


Mr  Lorentz.  —  I  should  like  to  see  clearly  how,  in  the  first  form  of 
your  theory,  you  recovered  Sommerfeld's  quantisation  conditions.  You 
obtained  a  single  condition,  applicable  only  to  the  case  where  the  orbit 
is  closed:  the  wave  must,  after  travelling  along  the  orbit,  finish  in  phase 
when  it  comes  back  to  the  initial  point.  But  in  most  cases  the  trajectory 
is  not  closed;  this  happens,  for  example,  for  the  hydrogen  atom  when 
one  takes  relativity  into  account;  the  trajectory  is  then  a  rosette,  and 
never  comes  back  to  its  initial  point. 

How  did  you  find  the  quantisation  conditions  applicable  to  these  mul- 
tiperiodic  problems? 

Mr  de  Broglie.  —  The  difficulty  is  resolved  by  considering  pseudo- 
periods,  as  I  pointed  out  in  my  Thesis  (chap.  Ill,  p.  41).  When  a  system 
is  multiperiodic,  with  partial  periods  t\,  75,  r„,  one  can  prove  that 
one  can  find  quasi-periods  r  that  are  nearly  exactly  whole  multiples  of 
the  partial  periods: 


the  mi,  m2,  frin  being  integers  and  the  Si,  £2,  £n  as  small  as 
one  likes.  The  trajectory  then  never  comes  back  to  its  initial  point,  but 
at  the  end  of  a  quasi-period  r  it  comes  back  as  closely  as  one  likes  to 
the  initial  position.  One  will  then  be  led  to  write  that,  at  the  end  of  a 
quasi-period,  the  wave  finishes  in  phase;  now,  there  is  an  infinite  number 
of  quasi-periods,  corresponding  to  all  kinds  of  systems  of  values  of  the 
integers  mi,  7712,  m„.  In  order  that  the  wave  finishes  in  phase  after 
any  one  of  these  quasi-periods,  it  is  necessary  that  one  have11 


Mr  Born.  —  The  definition  of  the  trajectory  of  a  particle  that  Mr 
de  Broglie  has  given  seems  to  me  to  present  difficulties  in  the  case  of 
a  collision  between  an  electron  and  an  atom.  In  an  elastic  collision,  the 
speed  of  the  particle  must  be  the  same  after  the  collision  as  before.  I 


T  =  TO1T1  +  £1  = 


TO2T2  +  £2—  =  mnTn  +  £. 


which  gives  e: 


ixactly  Sommerfeld's  conditions^ 


a  Darrigol  (1993,  pp.  342-3,  364-5)  shows  that  this  derivation  is  faulty:  the  condition 
that  the  wave  should  finish  in  phase  after  any  quasi-period  does  not  imply  the  n 
separate  conditions  listed  above. 


Discussion 


399 


should  like  to  ask  Mr  de  Broglie  if  that  follows  from  his  formula. 

Mr  de  Broglie.  —  That  follows  from  it,  indeed. 

Mr  Brillouin.  —  It  seems  to  me  that  no  serious  objection  can  be 
made  to  the  point  of  view  of  L.  de  Broglie.  Mr  Born  can  doubt  the 
real  existence  of  the  trajectories  calculated  by  L.  de  Broglie,  and  assert 
that  one  will  never  be  able  to  observe  them,  but  he  cannot  prove  to  us 
that  these  trajectories  do  not  exist.  There  is  no  contradiction  between 
the  point  of  view  of  L.  de  Broglie  and  that  of  other  authors,  since,  in 
his  report  (§8,  p.  I388!12)  L.  de  Broglie  shows  us  that  his  formula^  are 
in  exact  agreement  with  those  of  Gordon,  at  present  accepted  by  all 
physicists. 

Mr  Pauli.  —  I  should  like  to  make  a  small  remark  on  what  seems  to 
me  to  be  the  mathematical  basis  of  Mr  de  Broglie's  viewpoint  concerning 
particles  in  motion  on  definite  trajectories.  His  conception  is  based  on 
the  principle  of  conservation  of  charge: 

—  +  —  +  —  +  — =  0    or     V  —  =  0  (a) 

dt      dx      dy      dz  ^  dxk 

which  is  a  consequence  of  the  wave  equation,  when  one  sets 

,dip*  dip  iirie 

ISk  =  lp-=  ip   g  h  -r  $fcW  ■ 

axk         oxk       h  c 

Mr  de  Broglie  introduces,  in  place  of  the  complex  function  ip,  the  two 
real  functions  a  and  if  defined  by 

ip  =  ae~ip  ,     -0*  =  ae~~v  . 

Substituting  these  expressions  into  the  expression  for  Sk  yields: 

4ir  9  /  dip      e  _ 
Sk  =  -ra2  — t-  +  -$fc 


h      \dxk  c 

From  this  follow  the  expressions  given  by  Mr  de  Broglie  for  the  velocity 
vector,  defined  by 

Sl  S2  S3 

vi  =  —  ,     v2  =  —  ,     v3  =  —  .  (b) 
P  P  P 

Now  if  in  a  field  theory  there  exists  a  conservation  principle  of  the 

a  That  is,  de  Broglie's  equations  for  the  mean  charge  and  current  density  to  be  used 
in  semiclassical  radiation  theory  (eds.). 


400 


L.  de  Broglie 


form  (a),  it  is  always  formally  possible  to  introduce  a  velocity  vector 
(b),  depending  on  space  and  time,  and  to  imagine  furthermore  corpuscles 
that  move  following  the  current  lines  of  this  vector.  Something  similar 
was  already  proposed  in  optics  by  Slater;  according  to  him,  light  quanta 
should  always  move  following  the  lines  of  the  Poynting  vector.  Mr  de 
Broglie  now  introduces  an  analogous  representation  for  material  par- 
ticles. 

In  any  case,  I  do  not  believe  that  this  representation  may  be  developed 
in  a  satisfactory  manner;  I  intend  to  return  to  this  during  the  general 
discussionQ 

Mr  Schrodinger.  —  If  I  have  properly  understood  Mr  de  Broglie, 
the  velocity  of  the  particles  must  have  its  analogue  in  a  vector  field 
composed  of  the  three  spatial  components  of  the  current  in  a  four- 
dimensional  space,  after  division  of  these  by  the  component  with  respect 
to  time  (that  is,  the  charge  density).  I  should  like  simply  to  recall  now 
that  there  exist  still  other  vector  quantities  of  a  field,  which  can  be  made 
to  correspond  with  the  velocity  of  the  particles,  such  as  the  components 
of  the  momentum  density  (see  Ann.  d.  Phys.13  82,  265).  Which  of  the 
two  analogies  is  the  more  convincing? 

Mr  Kramers.  —  The  fact  that  with  independent  particles  in  motion 
one  cannot  construct  an  energy-momentum  tensor  having  the  properties 
required  by  Maxwell's  theory  constitutes  nevertheless  a  difficulty. 

Mr  Pauli.  —  The  quotient  of  the  momentum  by  the  energy  densi- 
ty which  Mr  Schrodinger  considers  would  in  fact  lead  in  a  relativistic 
calculation  to  other  particle  trajectories  than  would  the  quotient  of  the 
densities  of  current  and  of  charge. 

Mr  Lorentz.  —  In  using  his  formulas  for  the  velocity  of  the  electron, 
has  Mr  de  Broglie  not  calculated  this  velocity  in  particular  cases,  for 
example  for  the  hydrogen  atom? 

Mr  de  Broglie.  —  When  one  applies  the  formula  for  the  velocity 
to  a  wave  function  representing  a  stable  state  of  the  hydrogen  atom 
according  to  Mr  Schrodinger,  one  finds  circular  orbits.  One  does  not 


a  See  pp.[509]ff.  (eds.). 


Discussion 


401 


recover  the  elliptical  orbits  of  the  old  theory  (see  my  report,  §8). 

Mr  Ehrenfest.  —  Can  the  speed  of  an  electron  in  a  stationary  orbit 
be  zero? 

Mr  de  Broglie.  —  Yes,  the  speed  of  the  electron  can  be  zero. 

Mr  Schrodinger.  —  Mr  de  Broglie  says  that  in  the  case  of  the 
hydrogen  atom  his  hypothesis  leads  to  circular  orbits.  That  is  true  for 
the  particular  solutions  of  the  wave  equation  that  one  obtains  when  one 
separates  the  problem  in  polar  coordinates  in  space;  perhaps  it  is  still 
true  for  the  solutions  that  one  obtains  by  making  use  of  parabolic  or 
elliptical  coordinates.  But  in  the  case  of  a  degeneracy  (as  he  considers 
it  here)  it  is,  in  reality,  not  at  all  the  particular  solutions  which  have 
a  significance,  but  only  an  arbitrary  linear  combination,  with  constant 
coefficients,  of  all  the  particular  solutions  belonging  to  the  same  eigenva- 
lue, because  there  is  no  means  of  distinguishing  between  them,  all  linear 
combinations  being  equally  justified  in  principle.  In  these  conditions, 
much  more  complicated  types  of  orbit  will  certainly  appear.  But  I  do 
not  believe  that  in  the  atomic  domain  one  may  still  speak  of  'orbits'. 

Mr  Lorentz.  —  Does  one  know  of  such  more  complicated  orbits? 

Mr  Schrodinger.  —  No,  one  does  not  know  of  them;  but  I  simply 
wanted  to  say  that  if  one  finds  circular  orbits,  that  is  due  to  a  fortuitous 
choice  of  particular  solutions  that  one  considers,  and  this  choice  cannot 
be  motivated  in  a  way  that  has  no  arbitrariness. 

Mr  Brillouin.  —  Perhaps  it  is  not  superfluous  to  give  some  examp- 
les that  illustrate  well  the  meaning  of  Mr  L.  de  Broglie's  formulas,  and 
that  allow  one  to  follow  the  motion  of  the  particles  guided  by  the  phase 
wave.  If  the  wave  is  plane  and  propagates  freely,  the  trajectories  of  the 
particles  are  the  rays  normal  to  the  wave  surface.  Let  us  suppose  that  the 
wave  is  reflected  by  a  plane  mirror,  and  let  9  be  the  angle  of  incidence; 
the  wave  motion  in  front  of  the  mirror  is  given  by  a  superposition  of  the 
incident  wave 


402 


L.  de  Broglie 


Fig.  1. 


and  the  reflected  wave 
which  gives 


eti  cos  2-7T  (  — 


z  cos  t 


27rzcos0  /  t  xsinf 

tp  =  2a\  cos  cos  2n  [  —  — 

A  \1  X 

This  wave  is  put  in  L.  de  Broglie's  canonical  form 


with 


2ir 

ip  =  a  cos  —  ip 
h 


2nz  cos  9  (  t      x  sin  ( 

2ai  cos   and       =  h  

A  \T  A 


Let  us  then  apply  L.  de  Broglie's  formulas,  in  the  simplified  form  given 
on  page!384l (§5);14  and  let  us  suppose  that  it  is  a  light  wave  guiding  the 
photons;  the  velocity  of  these  is 

->  r2  

V 


h  v 


grad<p 


We  see  that  the  projectiles  move  parallel  to  the  mirror,  with  a  speed 
vx  —  csin#,  less  than  c.  Their  energy  remains  equal  to  hv,  because 
their  mass  has  undergone  a  variation,  according  to  the  following  formula 
(report  by  L.  de  Broglie,  p.  I383|) :15 


Discussion 


403 


Mirror 


Fig.  2. 

The  mass  of  the  photons,  which  is  zero  in  the  case  where  the  wave 
propagates  freely,  is  then  assumed  to  take  a  non-zero  value  in  the  whole 
region  where  there  is  interference  or  deviation  of  the  wave. 

Let  us  draw  a  diagram  for  the  case  of  a  limited  beam  of  light  falling  on 
a  plane  mirror;  the  interference  is  produced  in  the  region  of  overlap  of  two 
beams.  The  trajectory  of  a  photon  will  be  as  follows:  at  first  a  rectilinear 
path  in  the  incident  beam,  then  a  bending  at  the  edge  of  the  interference 
zone,  then  a  rectilinear  path  parallel  to  the  mirror,  with  the  photon 
travelling  in  a  bright  fringe  and  avoiding  the  dark  interference  fringes; 
then,  when  it  comes  out,  the  photon  retreats  following  the  direction  of 
the  reflected  light  beam. 

No  photon  actually  strikes  the  mirror,  nevertheless  the  mirror  suffers 
classical  radiation  pressure;  it  is  in  order  to  explain  this  fact  that  L.  de 
Broglie  assumes  the  existence  of  special  stresses  in  the  interference  zone; 
these  stresses,  when  added  to  the  tensor  of  momentum  flux  transported 
by  the  photons,  reproduce  the  classical  Maxwell  tensor;  there  is  then 
no  difference  in  the  mechanical  effects  produced  by  the  wave  during  its 
reflection  by  the  mirror. 

These  remarks  show  how  L.  de  Broglie's  system  of  hypotheses  pre- 
serves the  classical  formulas,  and  avoids  a  certain  number  of  awkward 
paradoxes.  One  thus  obtains,  for  example,  the  solution  to  a  curious 
problem  posed  by  G.  N.  Lewis  (Proc.  Nat.  Acad.  12  (1926),  22  and 
439),  which  was  the  subject  of  discussions  between  this  author  and  R. 
C.  Tolman  and  S.  Smith  (Proc.  Nat.  Acad.   12  (1926),  343  and  508). 

Lewis  assumed  that  the  photons  always  follow  the  path  of  a  light 


404 


L.  de  Broglie 


Bright 
fringe 


Dark 
fringe 


s 


Fig.  3. 


ray  of  geometrical  optics,  but  that  they  choose,  among  the  different 
rays,  only  those  that  lead  from  the  luminous  source  to  a  bright  fringe 
situated  on  an  absorbing  body.  He  then  considered  a  source  S  whose 
light  is  reflected  by  two  mirrors  AA '  and  BB ';  the  light  beams  overlap, 
producing  interference  [zones]  in  which  one  places  a  screen  CD;  the 
dimensions  are  assumed  to  be  such  that  there  is  a  bright  fringe  on  one 
of  the  edges  D  of  the  screen  and  a  dark  fringe  on  the  other  edge  C. 
Following  the  hypothesis  of  Lewis,  the  photons  would  follow  only  the 
paths  SBD  and  SAD,  which  end  at  the  bright  fringe  D;  no  photon  will 
take  the  path  SA  'C  or  SB  'C.  All  the  photons  come  to  strike  the  mirror 
AA '  on  the  edge  A,  so  one  could  predict  that  this  mirror  would  suffer  a 
torque;  if  one  made  it  movable  around  an  axis  0,  it  would  tend  to  turn 
in  the  direction  of  the  arrow. 

This  paradoxical  conclusion  is  entirely  avoided  by  L.  de  Broglie,  since 
his  system  of  hypotheses  preserves  the  values  of  radiation  pressure. 
This  example  shows  clearly  that  there  is  a  contradiction  between  the 
hypothesis  of  rectilinear  paths  for  the  photons  (following  the  light  rays) 
and  the  necessity  of  finding  photons  only  where  a  bright  interference 
fringe  is  produced,  no  photon  going  through  the  regions  of  dark  fringes. 

Mr  Lorentz  draws  attention  to  a  case  where  the  classical  theory 
and  the  photon  hypothesis  lead  to  different  results  concerning  the  pon- 
deromotive  forces  produced  by  light.  Let  us  consider  reflection  by  the 
hypotenuse  face  of  a  glass  prism,  the  angle  of  incidence  being  larger  than 
the  angle  of  total  reflection.  Let  us  place  a16  second  prism  behind  the 
first,  at  a  distance  of  the  order  of  magnitude  of  the  wavelength,  or  only 


Discussion 


405 


a  fraction  of  this  length.  Then,  the  reflection  will  no  longer  be  total. 
The  light  waves  that  penetrate  the  layer  of  air  reach  the  second  prism 
before  their  intensity  is  too  much  weakened,  and  there  give  rise  to  a 
beam  transmitted  in  the  direction  of  the  incident  rays. 

If,  now,  one  calculates  the  Maxwell  stresses  on  a  plane  situated  in 
the  layer  of  air  and  parallel  to  its  surfaces,  one  finds  that,  if  the  angle 
of  incidence  exceeds  a  certain  value  (60°  for  example) ,  there  will  be  an 
attraction  between  the  two  prisms.  Such  an  effect  can  never  be  produced 
by  the  motion  of  corpuscles,  this  motion  always  giving  rise  to  a  [positive] 
pressure  as  in  the  kinetic  theory  of  gases. 

What  is  more,  in  the  classical  theory  one  easily  sees  the  origin  of  the 
'negative  pressure'.  One  can  distinguish  two  cases,  that  where  the  electric 
oscillations  are  in  the  plane  of  incidence  and  that  where  this  is  so  for  the 
magnetic  oscillations.  If  the  incidence  is  very  oblique,  the  oscillations  of 
the  incident  beam  that  I  have  just  mentioned  are  only  slightly  inclined 
with  respect  to  the  normal  to  the  hypotenuse  face,  and  the  same  is  true 
for  the  corresponding  oscillations  in  the  layer  of  air. 

One  then  has  approximately,  in  the  first  case  an  electric  field  such  as 
one  finds  between  the  electrodes  of  a  capacitor,  and  in  the  second  case 
a  magnetic  field  such  as  exists  between  two  opposite  magnetic  poles. 

The  effect  would  still  remain  if  the  second  prism  were  replaced  by  a 
glass  plate,  but  it  must  be  very  difficult  to  demonstrate  this  experimen- 
tally. 


406 


Notes  to  pp.  375-404 


Notes  to  the  translation 

1  The  integral  sign  is  printed  as  '/0'  in  the  original. 

2  The  French  uses  'Wellenpacket'  throughout. 

3  Mis-spelt  as  'Fuess'. 

4  We  follow  the  original  English,  which  is  a  translation  by  Oppenheimer, 
from  Born  (1927,  p.  355).  De  Broglie  translates  'mechanics'  as 
'dynamique'  and  includes  the  words  'La  Dynamique  des  Quanta'  in  the 
quotation,  where  Born  has  'it'  (referring  to  'quantum  mechanics'). 

5  The  French  reads  'ces'  [these]  rather  than  'sea'  [its]. 

6  V  is  misprinted  as  'V. 

7  Consistently  mis-spelt  throughout  the  text  as  'Elsaesser'. 

8  For  clarity,  the  presentation  of  the  table  has  been  slightly  altered. 

9  We  have  used  the  original  English  (Dymond  1927,  p.  441). 

10  We  use  here  the  original  English  text  (Patterson  1927,  p.  47).  De  Broglie 
changes  'of  these  results'  to  'des  resultats  experimentaux',  omits  the 
italics  and  translates  'valuable'  by  'exacts'. 

11  The  last  equality  is  misprinted  as  'Jt  pndq  =  n„hn'. 

12  The  original  reads  'p.  18',  which  is  presumably  in  reference  to  de 
Broglie's  Gauthier-Villars  'preprint',  in  all  likelihood  circulated  before  the 
conference  (preprints  of  other  lectures  were  circulated  as  mimeographs). 
Cf.  chapter  Q]  p.  [19] 

13  'Ann.  de  Phys.'  in  the  original. 

14  This  is  'p.  117'  in  the  original. 

15  Again,  'p.  117'  in  the  original. 

16  Misprinted  as  'au'  instead  of  'un'. 


Quantum  mechanics^ 


by  Messrs  Max  BORN  and  Werner  HEISENBERG 


Introduction 

Quantum  mechanics  is  based  on  the  intuition  that  the  essential  difference 
between  atomic  physics  and  classical  physics  is  the  occurrence  of  discon- 
tinuities (see  in  particular  [l,4,58-63])0  Quantum  mechanics  should  thus 
be  considered  a  direct  continuation  of  the  quantum  theory  founded  by 
Planck,  Einstein  and  Bohr.  Bohr  in  particular  stressed  repeatedly,  alrea- 
dy before  the  birth  of  quantum  mechanics,  that  the  discontinuities  must 
lead  to  the  introduction  of  new  kinematical  and  mechanical  concepts,  so 
that  indeed  classical  mechanics  and  its  corresponding  conceptual  scheme 
should  be  abandoned  [1,4].  Quantum  mechanics  tries  to  introduce  the 
new  concepts  through  a  precise  analysis  of  what  is  'observable  in  princi- 
ple'. In  fact,  this  does  not  mean  setting  up  the  principle  that  a  sharp  di- 
vision between  'observable'  and  'unobservable'  quantities  is  possible  and 
necessary.  As  soon  as  a  conceptual  scheme  is  given,  one  can  infer  from 
the  observations  to  other  facts  that  are  actually  not  observable  directly, 
and  the  boundary  between  'observable'  and  'unobservable'1  quantities 
becomes  altogether  indeterminate.  But  if  the  conceptual  scheme  itself  is 
still  unknown,  it  will  be  expedient  to  enquire  only  about  the  observations 
themselves,  without  drawing  conclusions  from  them,  because  otherwise 
wrong  concepts  and  prejudices  taken  over  from  before  will  block  the  way 

a  Our  translation  follows  the  German  typescript  in  AHQP-RDN,  document  M-0309. 
Discrepancies  between  the  typescript  and  the  published  version  are  reported  in  the 
endnotes.  The  published  version  is  reprinted  in  Heisenberg  (1984,  ser.  B,  vol.  2, 
pp.  58-99)  (eds.). 

b  Numbers  in  square  brackets  refer  to  the  bibliography  at  the  end. 


407 


408 


M.  Born  and  W.  Heisenberg 


to  recognising  the  physical  relationships  [Zusammenhange] .  At  the  same 
time  the  new  conceptual  scheme  provides  the  anschaulich  content  of  the 


thus  demand  only  that  it  is  consistent  in  itself  and  that  it  allows  one  to 
predict  unambiguously  the  results  for  all  experiments  conceivable  in  its 
domain.  Quantum  mechanics  is  meant  as  a  theory  that  is  in  this  sense 
anschaulich  and  complete  for  the  micromechanical  processes  [46]. 2 

Two  kinds  of  discontinuities  are  characteristic  of  atomic  physics:  the 
existence  of  corpuscles  (electrons,  light  quanta)  on  the  one  hand,  and 
the  occurrence  of  discrete  stationary  states  (discrete3  energy  values, 
momentum  values  etc.)  on  the  other.  Both  kinds  of  discontinuities  can 
be  introduced  in  the  classical  theory  only  through  artificial  auxiliary  as- 
sumptions. For  quantum  mechanics,  the  existence  of  discrete  stationary 
states  and  energy  values  is  just  as  natural  as  the  existence  of  discrete 
eigenoscillations  in  a  classical  oscillation  problem  [4].  The  existence  of 
corpuscles  will  perhaps  later  turn  out  to  be  reducible  just  as  easily  to 
discrete  stationary  states  of  the  wave  processes  (quantisation  of  the 
electromagnetic  waves  on  the  one  hand,  and  of  the  de  Broglie  waves 
on  the  other)  [4],  [54]. 

The  discontinuities,  as  the  notion  of  'transition  probabilities'  already 
shows,  introduce  a  statistical  element  into  atomic  physics.  This  stati- 
stical element  forms  an  essential  part  of  the  foundations  of  quantum 
mechanics  (see  in  particular  [4, 30, 38, 39, 46, 60, 61, 62]);4  according  to  the 
latter,  for  instance,  in  many  cases  the  course  of  an  experiment  is  de- 
terminable from  the  initial  conditions  only  statistically,  at  least  if  in 
fixing  the  initial  conditions  one  takes  into  account  only  the  experiments 
conceivable  in  principle  up  to  now.  This  consequence  of  quantum  mecha- 
nics is  empirically  testable.  Despite  its  statistical  character,  the  theory 
nevertheless  accounts  for  the  apparently  fully  causal  determination  of 
macroscopic5  processes.  In  particular,  the  principles  of  conservation  of 
energy  and  momentum  hold  exactly  also  in  quantum  mechanics.  There 
seems  thus  to  be  no  empirical  argument  against  accepting  fundamental 
indeterminism  for  the  microcosm. 


a  For  the  notion  of  Anschaulichkeit,  see  the  comments  in  sections  13.4.71  l4~6l and [8751 


one  can 


(eds.). 


Quantum  mechanics  409 

I.  —  The  mathematical  methods  of  quantum  mechanic^ 

The  phenomenon  for  whose  study  the  mathematical  formalism  of  quantum 
mechanics  was  first  developed  is  the  spontaneous  radiation  of  an  excited 
atom.  After  innumerable  attempts  to  explain  the  structure  of  the  line 
spectra  with  classical  mechanical  models  had  proved  inadequate,  one 
returned  to  the  direct  description  of  the  phenomenon  on  the  basis  of 
its  simplest  empirical  laws  (Heisenberg  [1]).  First  among  these  is  Ritz's 
combination  principle,  according  to  which  the  frequency  of  each  spectral 
line  of  an  atom  appears  as  the  difference  of  two  terms  =  T$  —  T^.; 
thus  the  set  of  all  lines  of  the  atom  will  be  best  described  by  specifying 
a  quadratic  array  [Schema],  and  since  each  line  possesses  besides  its 
frequency  also  an  intensity  and  a  phase,  one  will  write  in  each  position 
of  the  array  an  elementary  oscillation  function  with  complex  amplitude: 

que27riuilt    q12e27riui2t    . . 

q2ie2niu21t     q22e2niu22t  1 


This  array  is  understood  as  representing  a  coordinate  q  as  a  function  of 
time  in  a  similar  way  as  the  totality  of  terms  of  the  Fourier  series 

n 

in  the  classical  theory;  except  that  now  because  of  the  two  indices  the 
sum  no  longer  makes  sense.  The  question  arises  of  which  expressions 
correspond  to  functions  of  the  classical  coordinate,  for  instance  to  the 
square  q2 .  Now,  such  arrays  ordered  by  two  indices  occur  as  matrices  in 
mathematics  in  the  theory  of  quadratic  forms  and  of  linear  transforma- 
tions; the  composition  of  two  linear  transformations, 


l  3 


to  form  a  new  one, 


Xk  —       Ckj  Zj  , 


then  corresponds  to  the  composition  or  multiplication  of  the  matrices 
ab  =  c,    that  is,    ^ dkihj  =  Ckj  ■  (2) 


a  Section  13.31  contains  additional  material  on  the  less  familiar  aspects  of  the 
formalisms  presented  here  (eds.). 


410 


M.  Born  and  W.  Heisenberg 


This  multiplication  in  general  is  not  commutative.  It  is  natural  to  apply 
this  recipe  to  the  array  of  the  atomic  oscillations  (Born  and  Jordan 
[2],  Dirac  [3]);  it  is  immediately  evident  that  because  of  Ritz's  formula 
Vik  =  Ti  —  Tfc  no  new  frequencies  appear,  just  as  in  the  classical  theory 
in  the  multiplication  of  two  Fourier  series,  and  herein  lies  the  first  ju- 
stification for  the  procedure.  By  repeated  application  of  additions  and 
multiplications  one  can  define  arbitrary  matrix  functions. 

The  analogy  with  the  classical  theory  leads  further  to  allowing  as 
representatives  of  real  quantities  only  those  matrices  that  are  'Hermiti- 
an',  that  is,  whose  elements  go  over  to  the  complex  conjugate  numbers 
under  permutation  of  the  indices.  The  discontinuous  nature  of  the  ato- 
mic processes  here  is  put  into  the  theory  from  the  start  as  empirically 
established.  However,  this  does  not  establish  yet  the  connection  with 
quantum  theory  and  its  characteristic  constant  h.  This  is  also  achieved, 
by  carrying  over  the  content6  of  the  Bohr-Sommerfeld  quantum  condi- 
tions in  a  form  given  by  Kuhn  and  Thomas,  in  which  they  are  written 
as  relations  between  the  Fourier  coefficients  of  the  coordinates  q  and 
momenta  p.  In  this  way  one  obtains  the  matrix  equation 

h 

pq  -  qp  =  —  .  1  ,  (3) 

where  1  means  the  unit  matrix.  The  matrix  p  thus  does  not  'commute' 
with  q.  For  several  degrees  of  freedom  the  commutation  relation  (J3j)  holds 
for  every  pair  of  conjugate  quantities,  while  the  qu  commute  with  each 
other,  the  pu  with  each  other,  and  also  the  pt  with  the  non-corresponding 
qk- 

In  order  to  construct  the  new  mechanics  (Born,  Heisenberg  and  Jordan 
[4]),  one  carries  over  as  far  as  possible  the  notions  of  the  classical  theory. 
It  is  possible  to  define  the  differentiation  of  a  matrix  with  respect  to 
time  and  that  of  a  matrix  function  with  respect  to  an  argument  matrix. 
One  can  thus  carry  over  to  the  matrix  theory  the  canonical  equations 

dq  _dH  dp  _  dH 

dt       dp  '        dt         dq  ' 

where  one  should  understand  H(p,  q)  as  the  same  function  of  the  matri- 
ces p,  q  that  occurs  in  the  classical  theory  as  a  function  of  the  numbers 
p,  q.  (To  be  sure,7  ambiguity  can  occur  because  of  the  noncommutati- 
vity  of  the  multiplication;  for  example,  p2q  is  different  from  pqp.)  This 
procedure  was  tested  in  simple  examples  (harmonic  and  anharmonic 
oscillator).  Further,  one  can  prove  the  theorem  of  conservation  of  ener- 
gy, which  for  non-degenerate  systems  (all  terms  Tk  different  from  each 


Quantum  mechanics 


411 


other,  or:  all  frequencies  Vik  different  from  zero)  here  takes  the  form:  for 
the  solutions  p,  q  of  the  canonical  equations  the  Hamiltonian  function 
H(p,  q)  becomes  a  diagonal  matrix  W.  It  follows  immediately  that  the 
elements  of  this  diagonal  matrix  represent  the  terms  Tn  of  Ritz's  formula 
multiplied  by  h  (Bohr's  frequency  condition).  It  is  particularly  important 
to  realise  that  conversely  the  requirement 

H(p,  q)  =  W       (diagonal  matrix) 

is  a  complete  substitute  for  the  canonical  equations  of  motion,  and  leads 
to  unambiguously  determined  solutions  even  if  one  allows  for  degenera- 
cies (equality  of  terms,  vanishing  frequencies). 

By  a  matrix  with  elements  that  are  harmonic  functions  of  time,  one 
can  of  course  represent  only  quantities  (coordinates)  that  correspond  to 
time-periodic  quantities  of  the  classical  theory.  Therefore  cyclic  coordi- 
nates (angles),  which  increase  proportionally  to  time,  cannot  be  treated 
at  presently  Nevertheless,  one  easily  manages  to  subject  rotating  systems 
to  the  matrix  method  by  representing  the  Cartesian  components  of  the 
angular  momentum  with  matrices  [4]. 8  One  obtains  thereby  expressions 
for  the  energj0  that  differ  characteristically  from  the  corresponding 
classical  ones;  for  instance  the  modulus9  of  the  total  angular  momentum 
is  not  equal  to  J^j  (j  =  0, 1,  2, . . .),  but  to  +  1),  in  accordance 

with  empirical  rules  that  Lande  and  others  had  derived  from  the  term 
splitting  in  the  Zeeman  effectB  Further,  one  obtains  for  the  changes 
in  the  angular  quantum  numbers  [Rotationsquantenzahlen]  the  correct 
selection  rules  and  intensity  formulas,  as  had  already  been  arrived  at 
earlier  by  correspondence  arguments  and  confirmed  by  the  Utrecht  ob- 
servationsH 

Pauli  [6],  avoiding  angular  variables,  even  managed  to  work  out  the 
hydrogen  atom  with  matrix  mechanics,  at  least  with  regard  to  the  energy 
values  and  some  aspects  of  the  intensities. 

Asking  for  the  most  general  coordinates  for  which  the  quantum  me- 
chanical laws  are  valid  leads  to  the  generalisation  of  the  notions  of  cano- 
nical variables  and  canonical  transformations  known  from  the  classical 
theory.  Dirac  [3]  has  noted  that  the  content  of  the  expressions  such  as 

a  This  point  is  taken  up  again  shortly  after  eq.  QHt-  (eds.). 

b  Angular  momentum  is  of  course  responsible  for  a  characteristic  splitting  of  the 
energy  terms  (eds.). 

c  For  Lande's  work  on  the  anomalous  Zeeman  effect,  see  Mehra  and  Rechenberg 

(1982a,  sec.  IV.4,  esp.  pp.  467-76  and  482-5)  (eds.). 
d  For  the  'Utrecht  observations'  see  Mehra  and  Rechenberg  (1982a,  sec.  VI. 6, 

pp.  647-8)  and  Mehra  and  Rechenberg  (1982b,  sec.  III. 4,  esp.  pp.  154-61)  (eds.). 


412  M.  Born  and  W.  Heisenberg 

"^jriPkli  —  QiPk)  —  Ski,  which  appear  in  the  commutation  relations  of  the 
type  ifSJ  corresponds10  to  that  of  the  Poisson  brackets,  whose  vanishing 
in  classical  mechanics  characterises  a  system  of  variables  as  canonical. 
Therefore  also  in  quantum  mechanics  one  will  denote  as  canonical  every 
system  of  matrix  pairs  p,  q  that  satisfy  the  commutation  relations,  and 
as  a  canonical  transformation  every  transformation  that  leaves  these 
relations  invariant.  One  can  write  these  with  the  help  of  an  arbitrary 
matrix  S  in  the  for 

P  =  S-xpS,    Q  =  S^qS  ,  (4) 

and  in  a  certain  sense  this  is  the  most  general  canonical  transformation. 
Then  for  an  arbitrary  function  one  has 

f(P7Q)  =  S-\f(p,q)S  . 

Now  one  can  also  carry  over  the  main  idea  of  the  Hamilton- Jacobi  theory 
[4].  Indeed,  if  the  Hamiltonian  function  H  is  given  as  a  function  of  any 
known  canonical  matrices  Po,<7o,  then  the  solution  of  the  mechanical 
problem  defined  by  H  reduces  to  finding  a  matrix  S  that  satisfies  the 
equation 

S-1H(P(),q0)S  =  W  .  (5) 

This  is  an  analogue  of  the  Hamilton-Jacobi  differential  equation  of  clas- 
sical mechanics. 

Exactly  as  there,  also  here  perturbation  theory  can  be  treated  most 
clearly  with  the  help  of  equation  (j^J .  If  H  is  given  as  a  power  series  in 
some  small  parameter 

H  =  Ha  +  \H1+  \2H2  +  ... 

and  the  mechanical  problem  is  solved  for  A  =  0,  that  is,  H0  =  Wq  is 
known  as  a  diagonal  matrix,  then  the  solution  to  IpjJ)  can  be  obtained 
easily  as  a  power  series 

5  =  1  +  XSi  +  \2S2  +  ■■■ 

by  successive  approximations.  Among  the  numerous  applications  of  this 
procedure,  only  the  derivation  of  Kramers'  dispersion  formula  shall  be 
mentioned  here,  which  results  if  one  assumes  that  the  light-emitting 
and  the  scattering  systems  are  weakly  coupled  and  if  one  calculates  the 
perturbation  on  the  latter  ignoring  the  backreaction  [4]@ 

a  Cf.  p.[99]above  (eds.). 

a  In  other  words,  one  considers  just  the  scattering  system  under  an  external 


Quantum  mechanics 


413 


The  theory  of  the  canonical  transformations  leads  to  a  deeper  concep- 
tion, which  later  became  essential  in  understanding  the  physical  meaning 
of  the  formalism. 

To  each  matrix  a  =  (anm)  one  can  associate  a  quadratic  (more  preci- 
sely: Hermitian)  forrrQ 

^  QnmPnPm 
nm 

of  a  sequence  of  variables  <pi,  tp%  . . .,  or  also  a  linear  transformation  of 
the  sequence  of  variables  ipi,  f2  ■  ■  ■>  into  another  one  ipi,  ip2  ■  ■  -11 

j>n  =  ^  anmipm  ,  (6) 

m 

where  provisionally  the  meaning  of  the  variables  ip„  and  ipn  shall  be  left 
unspecified;  we  shall  return  to  this. 

A  transformation  |(6|)  is  called  'orthogonal'  if  it  maps  the  identity  form 
into  itself 

<Pn<fn  =  2J  i'n'tpn  ■  (7) 
n  n 

Now  these  orthogonal  transformations  of  the  auxiliary  variables  </?„  im- 
mediately turn  out  to  be  essentially  identical  to  the  canonical  trans- 
formations of  the  q  and  p  matrices;  the  Hermitian  character  and  the 
commutation  relations  are  preserved.  Further,  one  can  replace  the  matrix 
equation  |(5])  by  the  equivalent  requirement  [4]:  the  form 

^Hnm(q0,po)(p 

n^Pm 

nm 

is  to  be  transformed  orthogonally  into  a  sum  of  squares 

'^Wn^ntpn  ■  (8) 

n 

The  fundamental  problem  of  mechanics  is  thus  none  other  than  the 
principal  axes  problem  for  surfaces  of  second  order  in  infinite-dimensional 
space,  occurring  everywhere  in  pure  and  applied  mathematics  and  va- 
riously studied.  As  is  well  known,  this  is  equivalent  to  asking  for  the 
values  of  the  parameter  W  for  which  the  linear  equations 

Wlfin  =  X!  Hrimfm  (9) 
m 

perturbation  (Born,  Heisenberg  and  Jotrdan  [4],  section  2.4,  in  particular  eq.  (32)). 
See  also  Mehra  and  Rechenberg  (1982c,  ch.  Ill,  esp.  pp.  93-4  and  103-9)  (eds.). 
a  (p  denotes  the  complex  number  conjugate  to  ip. 


414 


M.  Born  and  W.  Heisenberg 


have  a  non-identically  vanishing  solution.  The  values  W  —  Wi,  W%, . . . 
are  called  eigenvalues  of  the  form  H\  they  are  the  energy  values  (terms) 
of  the  mechanical  system.  To  each  eigenvalue  Wn  corresponds  an  eigenso- 
lution  (fk  =  fkn  @  The  set  of  these  eigensolutions  evidently  again  forms  a 
matrix  and  it  is  easy  to  see  that  this  is  identical  with  the  transformation 
matrix  S  appearing  in  ©0 

The  eigenvalues,  as  is  well  known,  are  invariant  under  orthogonal 
transformations  of  the  ifik,12  and  since  these  correspond  to  the  canonical 
substitutions  of  the  p  and  q  matrices,  one  recognises  immediately  the 
canonical  invariance  of  the  energy  values  Wn. 

While  the  quantum  theoretical  matrices  do  not  belong  to  the  class  of 
matrices  (finite  and  bounded  infinite13)  investigated  by  the  mathemati- 
cians (especially  by  Hilbert  and  his  school),  one  can  nevertheless  carry 
over  the  main  aspects  of  the  known  theory  to  the  more  general  case. 
The  precise  formulation  of  these  theorems14  has  been  recently  given  by 
J.  von  Neumann  [42]  in  a  paper  to  which  we  shall  have  to  return.15 

The  most  important  result  that  is  achieved  in  this  way  is  the  theorem 
that  a  form  cannot  always  be  decomposed  into  a  sum  of  squares  (jSJ ,  but 
that  there  also  occur  invariant  integral  components 


where  the  sequence  of  variables  r/'ij  ^2)  ••  •  has  to  be  complemented  by 
the  continuous  distribution  tp(W), 

In  this  way  the  continuous  spectra  appear  in  the  theory  in  the  most 
natural  way.  But  this  implies  by  no  means  that  in  this  domain  the 
classical  theory  comes  again  into  its  own.  Also  here  the  characteristic  dis- 
continuities of  quantum  theory  remain;  also  in  the  continuous  spectrum 
a  (spontaneous)  state  transition  consists  of  a  'jump'  of  the  system  from 
a  point  W  to  another  one  W"  with  emission  of  a  wave  q(W,  W')e27TWt 
with  the  frequency  v  —  \{W  —  W"). 

The  main  defect  of  matrix  mechanics  consists  in  its  clumsiness,  even 
helplessness,  in  the  treatment  of  non-periodic  quantities,  such  as  angular 
variables  or  coordinates  that  attain  infinitely  large  values  (e.g.  hyperbolic 
trajectories).  To  overcome  this  difficulty  two  essentially  different  routes 
have  been  taken,  the  operator  calculus  of  Born  and  Wiener  [21],  and  the 
so-called16  q-number  theory  of  Dirac  [7] . 

a  This  is  the  notation  used  by  Born  and  Heisenberg:  the  nth  eigensolution  is 
represented  by  an  infinite  vector  with  components  labelled  by  k  (eds.). 

b  This  point  is  made  more  explicit  after  eq.  I|17|l.  See  also  the  relevant  contributions 
by  Dirac  and  by  Kramers  in  the  general  discussion,  pp.  1491 1  and  14951  (eds.). 


(10) 


Quantum  mechanics 


415 


The  latter  starts  from  the  idea  that  a  great  part  of  the  matrix  relati- 
ons can  be  obtained  without  an  explicit  representation  of  the  matrices, 
simply  on  the  basis  of  the  rules  for  operating  with  the  matrix  symbols. 
These  depart  from  the  rules  for  numbers  only  in  that  the  multiplication  is 
generally  not  commutative.  Dirac  therefore  considers  abstract  quantities, 
which  he  calls  q-numbers  (as  opposed  to  the  ordinary  c-numbers)  and 
with  which  he  operates  according  to  the  rules  of  the  noncommutative 
algebra.  It  is  therefore  a  kind  of  hypercomplex  number  system.  The 
commutation  relations  are  of  course  preserved.  The  theory  acquires  an 
extraordinary  resemblance  to  the  classical  one;  for  instance,  one  can 
introduce  angle  and  action  variables  w,  J  and  expand  any  q-number  into 
a  Fourier  series  with  respect  to  the  w;  the  coefficients  are  functions  of  the 
J  and  turn  out  to  be  identical  to  the  matrix  elements  if  one  replaces  the  J 
by  integer  multiples  of  h.  By  his  method  Dirac  has  achieved  important 
results,  for  instance  worked  out  the  hydrogen  atom  independently  of 
Pauli  [7]  and  determined  the  intensity  of  radiation  in  the  Compton  effect 
[12].  A  drawback  of  this  formalism  —  apart  from  the  quite  tiresome 
dealing  with  the  noncommutative  algebra  —  is  the  necessity  to  replace 
at  a  certain  point  of  the  calculation  certain  q-numbers  with  ordinary 
numbers  (e.g.  J  =  hn),  in  order  to  obtain  results  comparable  with 
experiment.  Special  'quantum  conditions'  which  had  disappeared  from 
matrix  mechanics  are  thus  needed  again. 

The  operator  calculus  differs  from  the  q-number  method  in  that  it  does 
not  introduce  abstract  hypercomplex  numbers,  but  concrete,  construc- 
tive mathematical  objects  that  obey  the  same  laws,  namely  operators 
or  functions  in  the  space  of  infinitely  many  variables.  The  method  is  by 
Eckart  [22]  and  was  then  developed  further  by  many  others  following  on 
from  Schrodinger's  wave  mechanics,  especially  by  Dirac  [38]  and  Jordan 
[39]  and  in  an  impeccable  mathematical  form  by  J.  von  Neumann  [42]; 
it  rests  roughly  on  the  following  idea. 

A  sequence  of  variables  ipi,  ipi, . . .  can  be  interpreted  as  a  point  in 
an  infinite-dimensional  space.  If  the  sum  of  squares  J2n  \  fn\2  converges, 
then  it  represents  a  measure  of  distance,  a  Euclidean  metric  [Massbe- 
stimmung],  in  this  space;  this  metric  space  of  infinitely  many  dimensions 
is  called  for  short  a  Hilbert  space.  The  canonical  transformations  of 
matrix  mechanics  correspond  thus  to  the  rotations  of  the  Hilbert  space. 
Now,  however,  one  can  also  fix  a  point  in  this  space  other  than  by 
the  specification  of  discrete  coordinates  ipi,ifi2,---  •  Take  for  instance 
a  complete,  normalised  orthogonal  system  of  functions  fi(q),  fi{q),  ■  ■  ■  , 


416  M.  Born  and  W.  Heisenberg 

that  is  one  for  which17 

{!      for  Tl  =  TYl 
0    for  n  ^=  m  ; 

the  variable  g  can  range  here  over  an  arbitrary,  also  multi-dimensional 
domain.  If  one  then  sets  (Lanczos  [23]) 18 


(12) 


{  H(q',q")     =     T,nmHnmfn(q')fm(q")  , 
the  linear  equations  ([9]) 19  turn  into  the  integral  equation20 

WW)=  /  H(q',q"Mq")dq"  .  (13) 


This  relation  established  through  l|T2j)  means  thus  nothing  but  a  change 
of  the  coordinate  system  in  the  Hilbert  space,  given  by  the  orthogonal 
transformation  matrix  fn(q)  with  one  discrete  and  one  continuous  index. 

One  sees  thus  that  the  preference  for  'discrete'  coordinate  systems 
in  the  original  version  of  the  matrix  theory  is  by  no  means  something 
essential.  One  can  just  as  well  use  'continuous  matrices'  such  as  H(q' ',  q"). 
Indeed,  the  specific  representation  of  a  point  in  the  Hilbert  space  by 
projection  onto  certain  orthogonal  coordinate  axes  does  not  matter  at 
all;  rather,  one  can  summarise  equations  ([9])  and  (fT3|  in  the  more  general 
equation 

Wip  =  Hip  ,  (14) 

where  H  denotes  a  linear  operator  which  transforms  the  point  tp  of  the 
Hilbert  space  into  another.  The  equation  requires  to  find  those  points 
<p  which  under  the  operation  H  only  suffer  a  displacement  along  the 
line  joining  them  to  the  origin.21  The  points  satisfying  this  condition 
determine  an  orthogonal  system  of  axes,  the  principal  axes  frame  of 
the  operator  H;  the  number  of  axes  is  finite  or  infinite,  in  the  latter 
case  distributed  discretely  or  continuously,  and  the  eigenvalues  W  are 
the  lengths  of  the  principal  axes.  The  linear  operators  in  the  Hilbert 
space  are  thus  the  general  concept  that  can  serve  to  represent  a  physical 
quantity  mathematically.  The  calculus  with  operators  proceeds  obvious- 
ly according  to  the  same  rules  as  the  one  with  Dirac's  q-numbers;  they22 
constitute  a  realisation  of  this  abstract  notion.  So  far  we  have  analysed 
the  situation  with  the  example  of  the  Hamiltonian  function,  but  the 
same  holds  for  any  quantum  mechanical  quantity.  Any  coordinate  q 
can  be  written,  instead  of  as  a  matrix  with  discrete  indices  qnm,  also 


Quantum  mechanics 


417 


as  a  function  of  two  continuous  variables  q(q' ,  q")  by  projection  onto  an 
orthogonal  system  of  functions,  or,  more  generally,  can  also  be  considered 
as  a  linear  operator  in  the  Hilbert  space;  then  it  has  eigenvalues  that  are 
invariant,  and  eigensolutions  with  respect  to  each  orthogonal  coordinate 
system.  The  same  holds  for  a  momentum  p  and  every  function  of  q 
and  p,  indeed  for  every  quantum  mechanical  'quantity'.  While  in  the 
classical  theory  physical  quantities  are  represented  by  variables  that  can 
take  numerical  values  from  an  arbitrary  value  range,  a  physical  quantity 
in  quantum  theory  is  represented  by  a  linear  operator  and  the  stock  of 
values  that  it  can  take  by  the  eigenvalues  of  the  corresponding  principal 
axes  problem  in  the  Hilbert  space. 

In  this  view,  Schrodinger's  wave  mechanics  [24]  appears  formally  as  a 
special  case.  The  simplest  operator  whose  characteristic  values  are  all  the 
real  numbers,  is  in  fact  the  multiplication  of  a  function  F(q)  by  the  real 
number  q;  one  writes  it  simply  q.  Then,  however,  the  eigenfunctions  are 
'improper'  functions;  for  according  to  (fl4|)  they  must  have  the  property 
of  being  everywhere  zero  except  if  W  =  q.  Dirac  [38]  has  introduced  for 
the  representation  of  such  improper  functions  the  'unit  function'  S(s), 
which  should  always  be  zero  when  s  /  0,  but  for  which  nonetheless 
J_to  S(s)ds  =  1  should  hold.  Then  one  can  write  down  the  (normalised) 
eigenfunctions 

<p(q,W)  =  q6(W  -  q)  (15) 

belonging  to  the  operator  q. 

The  conjugate  to  the  operator  q  is  the  differential  operator 

h  d 

P=2^8-q->  ™ 

indeed,  the  commutation  relation  |(3])  holds,  which  means  just  the  trivial 
identity 

(pq     qp)T{q)  =  A  [UqF)  -  q*f\  =  ±F(q)  . 

2m  {dq  aq  J  2m 

If  one  now  constructs  a  Hamiltonian  function  out  of  p,  q  (or  out  of 
several  such  conjugate  pairs),  then  equation  lfl4|)  becomes  a  differential 
equation  for  the  quantity  ip(q): 

H(q,^-yqMq)  =  Wip(q)  .  (17) 

This  is  Schrodinger's  wave  equation,  which  appears  here  as  a  special  case 
of  the  operator  theory.  The  most  important  point  about  this  formulation 


418 


M.  Born  and  W.  Heisenberg 


of  the  quantum  laws  (apart  from  the  great  advantage  of  connecting 
to  known  mathematical  methods)  is  the  replacement  of  all  'quantum 
conditions',  such  as  were  still  necessary  in  Dirac's  theory  of  q- numbers, 
by  the  simple  requirement  that  the  eigenfunction  tp(q)  —  ip{q,  W)  should 
be  everywhere  finite  in  the  domain  of  definition  of  the  variables  q; 
from  this,  in  the  event,  a  discontinuous  spectrum  of  eigenvalues  Wn 
(along  with  continuous  ones)  arises  automatically.  But  Schrodinger's 
eigenfunction  ip(q,  W)  is  actually  nothing  but  the  transformation  matrix 
S  of  equation  <[5j) ,  which  one  can  indeed  also  write  in  the  form 

HS  =  SW  , 

analogous  to  lfl7|). 

Dirac  [38]  has  made  this  state  of  affairs  even  clearer  by  writing  the 
operators  q  and  p  and  thereby  also  H  as  integral  operators,  as  in  (fT3|k 
then  one  has  to  set 


qFtf)     =        q"S(q'  -q")F(q")dq"        =    q'F(q')  , 

r  h  h  dT  (18) 

where,  however,  the  occurrence  of  the  derivative  of  the  singular  function 
5  has  to  be  taken  into  the  bargain.  Then  Schrodinger's  equation  l|17p 
takes  the  form  (fl3|). 

The  direct  passage  to  the  matrix  representation  in  the  strict  sense 
takes  place  by  inverting  the  formulas  lfT2|).  in  which  one  identifies  the 
orthogonal  system  fn(q)  with  the  eigenfunctions  <p(q,Wn)  belonging  to 
the  discrete  spectrum.  If  T  is  an  arbitrary  operator  (constructed  from  q 
and  p  =  2§j^),  define  the  corresponding  matrix  Tnm  by  the  coefficients 
of  the  expansion 

Tifn(q)  =  )Tnmipm(q)  (19) 


or 


ipm(q)Ttpn(q)dq  ;  (19a) 

then  one  easily  sees  that  equation  (fl7|l  is  equivalent  to 

The  further  development  of  the  formal  theory  has  taken  place  in  close 
connection  with  its  physical  interpretation,  to  which  we  therefore  turn 
first. 


Quantum  mechanics 


419 


II.  —  Physical  interpretation 

The  most  noticeable  defect  of  the  original  matrix  mechanics  consists  in 
the  fact  that  at  first  it  appears  to  give  information  not  about  actual 
phenomena,  but  rather  only  about  possible  states  and  processes.  It 
allows  one  to  calculate  the  possible  stationary  states  of  a  system;  further 
it  makes  a  statement  about  the  nature  of  the  harmonic  oscillation  that 
can  manifest  itself  as  a  light  wave  in  a  quantum  jump.  But  it  says  nothing 
about  when  a  given  state  is  present,  or  when  a  change  is  to  be  expected. 
The  reason  for  this  is  clear:  matrix  mechanics  deals  only  with  closed 
periodic  systems,  and  in  these  there  are  indeed  no  changes.  In  order  to 
have  true  processes,23  as  long  as  one  remains  in  the  domain  of  matrix 
mechanics,  one  must  direct  one's  attention  to  a  part  of  the  system;  this  is 
no  longer  closed  and  enters  into  interaction  with  the  rest  of  the  system. 
The  question  is  what  matrix  mechanics  can  tell  us  about  this. 

Imagine,  for  instance,  two  systems  1  and  2  weakly  coupled  to  each 
other  (Heisenberg  [35],  Jordan 

[36])  B 

For  the  total  system  conservation 
of  energy  then  holds;  that  is,  H  is  a  diagonal  matrix.  But  for  a  subsystem, 
for  instance  1,  is  not  constant,  the  matrix  has  elements  off  the 

diagonal.24  The  energy  exchange  can  now  be  interpreted  in  two  ways:  for 
one,  the  periodic  elements  of  the  matrix  of  (or  of  H^)  represent 
a  slow  beating,  a  continuous  oscillation  of  the  energy  to  and  fro;  but 
at  the  same  time,  one  can  also  describe  the  process  with  the  concepts 
of  the  discontinuum  theory  and  say  that  system  1  performs  quantum 
jumps  and  carries  over  the  energy  that  is  thereby  freed  to  system  2  as 
quanta,  and  vice  versa.  But  one  can  now  show  that  these  two  apparently 
very  different  views  do  not  contradict  each  other  at  all.  This  rests  on  a 
mathematical  theorem  that  states  the  following: 

Let  f{wk1])  be  any  function  of  the  energy  values  Wn^  of  the  isolated 
subsystem  1;  if  one  forms  the  same  function  of  the  matrix  i?'1'  that 
represents  the  energy  of  system  1  in  the  presence  of  the  coupling  to 
system  2,  then  f(H^)  is  a  matrix  that  does  not  consist  only  of  diagonal 
elements  f(H^')nn.  But  these  represent  the  time-averaged  value  of  the 
quantity  f(H^').  The  effect  of  the  coupling  is  thus  measured  by  the 
difference25 

5U  =  f{H(1))nn-f(W^)  . 
The  first  part  of  the  said  theorem  now  states  that  Sfn  can  be  brought 

a  The  form  of  the  result  as  given  here  is  similar  to  that  in  Heisenberg  [35].  For 
further  details,  see  the  discussion  in  section  13.4.41  (eds. ). 


420 


M.  Born  and  W.  Heisenberg 


into  the  form 


nm 


(20) 


rn 


This  can  be  interpreted  thus:  the  time  average  of  the  change  in  /  due 
to  the  coupling  is  the  arithmetic  mean,  with  certain  weightings  &nm,  of 
all  possible  jumps  of  /  for  the  isolated  system. 

These  <&nm  will  have  to  be  called  'transition  probabilities'.  The  second 
part  of  the  theorem  determines  the  $nm  through  the  features  of  the 
coupling.  Namely,  if  p\,  qi,P2,  9°  are  coordinates  satisfying  the  evolution 
equations  of  the  uncoupled  systems,  for  which  therefore  and 
on  their  own  are  diagonal  matrices,  one  can  then  think  of  the  energy, 
including  the  interaction,  as  expressed  as  a  function  of  these  quantities. 
Then  the  solution  of  the  mechanical  problem  according  to  ([5]) 27  reduces 
to  constructing  a  matrix  S  that  satisfies  the  equation 


Denoting  the  states  of  system  1  by  ni,  those  of  system  2  by  a  state  of 
the  total  system  is  given  by  nin2,28  and  to  each  transition  n\ri2  — >  m\m2 
corresponds  an  element  of  S,  SniTl2jmim2,  Then  the  result  is:29 


The  squares  of  the  elements  of  the  S-matrix  thus  determine  the  tran- 
sition probabilities.  The  individual  sum  term  |S,„in2jlnim2 12  in  l|2"Tj)  ob- 
viously means  that  component  of  the  transition  probability  for  the  jump 
n\  — >  mi  of  system  1  that  is  induced  by  the  jump  n2  — >  m2  of  system  2. 

By  means  of  these  results  the  contradiction  between  the  two  views 
from  which  we  started  is  removed.  Indeed,  for  the  mean  values,  which 
alone  may  be  observed,  the  conception  of  continuous  beating  always 
leads  to  the  same  result  as  the  conception  of  quantum  jumps. 

If  one  asks  the  question  when  a  quantum  jump  occurs,  the  theory 
provides  no  answer.  At  first  it  seemed  as  if  there  were  a  gap  here  which 
might  be  filled  with  further  probing.  But  soon  it  became  apparent  that 
this  is  not  so,  rather,  that  it  is  a  failure  of  principle,  which  is  deeply 
anchored  in  the  nature  of  the  possibility  of  physical  knowledge  [physi- 
kalisches  Erkenntnisvermogen] . 

One  sees  that  quantum  mechanics  yields  mean  values  correctly,  but 
cannot  predict  the  occurrence  of  an  individual  event.  Thus  determinism, 
held  so  far  to  be  the  foundation  of  the  exact  natural  sciences,  appears 


S-1H(p01,q01,p02,q2))S  =  W  . 


(21) 


Quantum  mechanics 


421 


here  to  go  no  longer  unchallenged.  Each  further  advance  in  the  interpre- 
tation of  the  formulas  has  shown  that  the  system  of  quantum  mechanical 
formulas  can  be  interpreted  consistently  only  from  the  point  of  view  of  a 
fundamental  indeterminism,  but  also,  at  the  same  time,  that  the  totality 
of  empirically  ascertainable  facts  can  be  reproduced  by  the  system  of  the 
theory. 

In  fact,  almost  all  observations  in  the  field  of  atomic  physics  have  a 
statistical  character;  they  are  countings,  for  instance  of  atoms  in  a  certain 
state.  While  the  determinateness  of  an  individual  process  is  assumed 
by  classical  physics,  in  fact  it  plays  practically  no  role,  because  the 
microcoordinates  that  exactly  determine  an  atomic  process  can  never  all 
be  given;  therefore  by  averaging  they  are  eliminated  from  the  formulas, 
which  thereby  become  statistical  statements.  It  has  become  apparent 
that  quantum  mechanics  represents  a  merging  of  mechanics  and  stati- 
stics, in  which  the  unobservable  microcoordinates  are  eliminated. 

The  clumsiness  of  the  matrix  theory  in  the  description  of  processes 
developing  in  time  can  be  avoided  by  making  use  of  the  more  general 
formalisms30  we  have  described  above.  In  the  general  equation  l[T4"l) 
one  can  easily  introduce  time  explicitly  by  invoking  the  theorem  of 
classical  mechanics  that  energy  W  and  time  t  behave  as  canonically 
conjugate  quantities;  in  quantum  mechanics  it  corresponds  to  having  a 
commutation  relation 

Wt  -  tW  =  —  . 

2ttj 

Thus  for  W  one  can  posit  the  operator  ^7  757  ■  Equation  (fl4"ll  then  reads 


2-rri  dt  ' 

h  dp  ,  s 

wW  =  ^'  (22) 

and  here  one  can  consider  H  as  depending  explicitly  on  time.  A  special 
case  of  this  is  the  equation 

*<«-Si5>-Sis}*«>-0'  (22a) 

given  by  Schrodinger  [24]  ,31  which  stands  to  (flTI  in  the  same  relation 
as  ([22])  to  Ull),  as  well  as  the  form: 


=  J  H(q',q"Mq")dq"  ,  (22b) 


h  dy(qi) 
2m  dt 

much  used  by  Dirac,  which  relates  to  the  integral  formula  (fl"3|l.  Essential- 
ly, the  introduction  of  time  as  a  numerical  variable  reduces  to  thinking  of 
the  system  under  consideration  as  coupled  to  another  one  and  neglecting 


422 


M.  Born  and  W.  Heisenberg 


the  reaction  on  the  latter.  But  this  formalism  is  very  convenient  and  leads 
to  a  further  development  of  the  statistical  view@  namely,  if  one  considers 
the  case  where  an  explicitly  time-dependent  perturbation  V(t)  is  added 
to  a  time- independent  energy  function  H° ,  so  that  one  has  the  equation 

(Dirac  [37],  Born  [34]). 32  Now  if  </?°  are  the  eigenfunctions  of  the  operator 
H°,  which  for  the  sake  of  simplicity  we  assume  to  be  discrete,  the  desired 
quantity  ip  can  be  expanded  in  terms  of  these: 

<p(t)=Y,cn(t)<p°n.  (24) 

n 

The  cn(t)  are  then  the  coordinates  of  ip  in  the  Hilbert  space  with  respect 
to  the  orthogonal  system  i/3„ ;  they  can  be  calculated  from  the  differential 
equation  (|23|).  if  their  initial  values  c„(0)  are  given.  The  result  can  be 
expressed  as: 

Cn{t)  =J2Snm(t)cm(0)  ,  (25) 
m 

where  Snm(t)  is  an  orthogonal  matrix  depending33  on  t  and  determined 
by  V(t). 

The  temporal  process  is  thus  represented  by  a  rotation  of  the  Hilbert 
space  or  by  a  canonical  transformation  (J4j)  with  the  time-dependent 
matrix  S. 

Now  how  is  one  to  interpret  this? 

From  the  point  of  view  of  Bohr's  theory  a  system  can  always  be 
in  only  one  quantum  state.  To  each  of  these  belongs  an  eigensolution 
of  the  unperturbed  system.  If  now  one  wishes  to  calculate  what 
happens  to  a  system  that  is  initially  in  a  certain  state,  say  the  kth, 
one  has  to  choose  tp  —  ip°k  as  the  initial  condition  for  equation  J23J) ,  i.e. 
Cn(O)  =  0  for  n  ^  k,  and  Cfc(O)  =  1.  But  then,  after  the  perturbation  is 
over,  cn(t)  will  have  become  equal  to  Snk(t),  and  the  solution  consists 
of  a  superposition  of  eigensolutions.  According  to  Bohr's  principles  it 
makes  no  sense  to  say  a  system  is  simultaneously  in  several  states.  The 
only  possible  interpretation  seems  to  be  statistical:  the  superposition 
of  several  eigensolutions  expresses  that  through  the  perturbation  the 
initial  state  can  go  over  to  any  other  quantum  state,  and  it  is  clear  that 
as  measure  for  the  transition  probability  one  has  to  take  the  quantity 

$nfe  -  \Snk{t)\2  ; 

a  See  the  discussion  in  section \3A\  (eds.). 


Quantum  mechanics 


423 


because  then  one  obtains  again  equation  (|20|  for  the  average  change  of 
any  state  function. 

This  interpretation  is  supported  by  the  fact  that  one  establishes  the 
validity  of  Ehrenfest's  adiabatic  theorem  (Born  [34]);  one  can  show  that 
under  an  infinitely  slow  action,  one  has 

$„„  -►  1,        $„fe  -►  0        (n^k)  , 

that  is,  the  probability  of  a  jump  tends  to  zero. 

But  this  assumption  also  leads  immediately  to  an  interpretation  of  the 
cn(t)  themselves:  the  |c„(£)|2  must  be  the  state  probabilities  [Zustands- 
wahrscheinlichkeiten] . 

Here,  however,  one  runs  into  a  difficulty  of  principle  that  is  of  great 
importance,  as  soon  as  one  starts  from  an  initial  state  for  which  not  all 
the  cn(0)  except  one  vanish.  Physically,  this  case  occurs  if  a  system  is 
given  for  which  one  does  not  know  exactly  the  quantum  state  in  which 
it  is,  but  knows  only  the  probability  |cn(0)|2  for  each  quantum  state. 
As  a  matter  of  fact,  the  phases  [Arcus]  of  the  complex  quantities  c„(0) 
still  remain  indefinite;  if  one  sets  c„(0)  =  |c„(0)|e17'1 ,  then  the  7„  denote 
some  phases  whose  meaning  needs  to  be  established.  The  probability 
distribution  at  the  end  of  the  perturbation  according  to  (|25|  is  then 

I  2 

\cn(t)\2  =  \ySnm{t)cm{0)  (26) 


and  not 


S„m(t)\2 \cm(0)\2  ,  (27) 


as  one  might  suppose  from  the  usual  probability  calculus. 

Formula  (|26"1).  following  Pauli,  can  be  called  the  theorem  of  the  in- 
terference of  probabilities;  its  deeper  meaning  has  become  clear  only 
through  the  wave  mechanics  of  de  Broglie  and  Schrodinger,  which  we 
shall  presently  discuss.  Before  this,  however,  it  should  be  noted  that 
this  'interference'  does  not  represent  a  contradiction  with  the  rules  of 
the  probability  calculus,  that  is,  with  the  assumption  that  the  \Snk\2 
are  quite  usual  probabilities^  In  fact,  the  composition  rule  ([27)1  follows 
from  the  concept  of  probability  for  the  problem  treated  here  when  and 
only  when  the  relative  number,  that  is,  the  probability  |c„|2  of  the  atoms 
in  the  state  n,  has  been  established  beforehand  experimentally.34  In  this 

a  The  notation  \Snm\2  would  probably  be  clearer,  at  least  according  to  the  reading 
of  this  passage  proposed  in  section [3.4.61  ( eds.). 


424 


M.  Born  and  W.  Heisenberg 


case  the  phases  7„  are  unknown  in  principle,35  so  that  f26|)  then  naturally 
goes  over  to  ([27])  [46]. 

It  should  be  noted  further  that  the  formula  ([26)1  goes  over  to  the 
expression  lj2"7j)  if  the  perturbation  function  proceeds  totally  irregularly 
as  a  function  of  time.  That  is  for  instance  the  case  when  the  perturbation 
is  produced  by  'white  light'E  Then,  on  average,  the  surplus  terms  in 
([26])  drop  out  and  one  obtains  ([27]).  In  this  way  it  is  easy  to  derive 
the  Einstein  coefficient  Bnm  for  the  probability  per  unit  radiation  of  the 
quantum  jumps  induced  by  light  absorption  (Dirac  [37],  Born  [30]).  But, 
in  general,  according  to  ([26)1  the  knowledge  of  the  probabilities  |c„(0)|2 
is  by  no  means  sufficient  to  calculate  the  course  of  the  perturbation, 
rather  one  has  to  know  also  the  phases  7„. 

This  circumstance  recalls  vividly  the  behaviour  of  light  in  interference 
phenomena.  The  intensity  of  illumination  on  a  screen  is  by  no  means 
always  equal  to  the  sum  of  the  light  intensities  of  the  individual  beams 
of  rays  that  impinge  on  the  screen,  or,  as  one  can  well  say,  it  is  by  no 
means  equal  to  the  sum  of  the  light  quanta  that  move  in  the  individual 
beams;  instead  it  depends  essentially  on  the  phases  of  the  waves.  Thus 
at  this  point  an  analogy  between  the  quantum  mechanics  of  corpuscles 
and  the  wave  theory  of  light  becomes  apparent. 

As  a  matter  of  fact  this  connection  was  found  by  de  Broglie  in  a 
quite  different  way.  It  is  not  our  purpose  to  discuss  this.  It  is  enough 
to  formulate  the  result  of  de  Broglie's  considerations,  and  their  further 
development  by  Schrodinger,  and  to  put  it  in  relation  to  quantum  me- 
chanics. 

The  dual  nature  of  light  —  waves,  light  quanta  —  corresponds  to 
the  analogous  dual  nature  of  material  particles;  these  also  behave  in  a 
certain  respect  like  waves.  Schrodinger  has  set  up  the  laws  of  propagation 
of  these  waves  [24]  and  has  arrived  at  equation  [(fTTl)].36  here  derived  in  a 
different  way.  His  view,  however,  that  these  waves  exhaust  the  essence  of 
matter  and  that  particles  are  nothing  but  wave  packets,  not  only  stands 
in  contradiction  with  the  principles  of  Bohr's  empirically  very  well- 
founded  theory,  but  also  leads  to  impossible  conclusions;  here  therefore 
it  shall  be  left  to  one  side.  Instead  we  attribute  a  dual  nature  to  matter 
also:  its  description  requires  both  corpuscles  (discontinuities)  and  waves 
(continuous  processes).  From  the  viewpoint  of  the  statistical  approach  to 
quantum  mechanics  it  is  now  clear  why  these  can  be  reconciled:  the  waves 
are  probability  waves.  Indeed,  it  is  not  the  probabilities  themselves, 


a  Compare  also  Bom's  discussion  in  Born  (1926c  [34])  (eds.). 


Quantum  mechanics 


425 


rather  certain  'probability  amplitudes'  that  propagate  continuously  and 
obey  differential  or  integral  equations,  as  in  classical  continuum  physics; 
but  additionally  there  are  discontinuities,  corpuscles  whose  frequency  is 
governed  by  the  square  of  these  amplitudes. 

The  most  definite  support  for  this  conception  is  given  by  collision  phe- 
nomena for  material  particles  (Born  [30]).  Already  Einstein  [16],  when  he 
deduced  from  de  Broglie's  daring  theory  the  possibility  of  'diffraction' 
of  material  particles  (fj  tacitly  assumed  that  it  is  the  particle  number 
that  is  determined  by  the  intensity  of  the  waves.  The  same  occurs  in 
the  interpretation  given  by  Elsasser  [17]  of  the  experiments  by  Davisson 
and  Kunsman  [18,19]  on  the  reflection  of  electrons  by  crystals;  also  here 
one  assumes  directly  that  the  number  of  electrons  is  a  maximum  in  the 
diffraction  maxima.  The  same  holds  for  Dymond's  [20]  experiments  on 
the  diffraction  of  electrons  by  helium  atoms. 

The  application  of  wave  mechanics  to  the  calculation  of  collision  pro- 
cesses takes  a  form  quite  analogous  to  the  theory  of  diffraction  of  light 
by  small  particles.  One  has  to  find  the  solution  to  Schrodinger's  wave 
equation  (fl?])  that  goes  over  at  infinity  to  a  given  incident  plane  wave; 
this  solution  behaves  everywhere  at  infinity  like  an  outgoing37  spherical 
wave.  The  intensity  of  this  spherical  wave  in  any  direction  compared  to 
the  intensity  of  the  incoming  wave  determines  the  relative  number  of 
particles  deflected  in  this  direction  from  a  parallel  ray.  As  a  measure  of 
the  intensity  one  has  to  take  a  'current  vector'38  which  can  be  construc- 
ted from  the  solution  <p(q,W),  and  which  is  formed  quite  analogously 
to  the  Poynting  vector  of  the  electromagnetic  theory  of  light,  and  which 
measures  the  number  of  particles  crossing  a  unit  surface  in  unit  time. 

In  this  way  Wentzel  [31]  and  Oppenheimer  [32]  have  derived  wave 
mechanically  the  famous  Rutherford  law  for  the  scattering  of  a-particles 
by  heavy  nuclei  IB 

If  one  wishes  to  calculate  the  probabilities  of  excitation  and  ionisation 
of  atoms  [30],  then  one  must  introduce  the  coordinates  of  the  atomic 
electrons  as  variables  on  an  equal  footing  with  those  of  the  colliding 
electron.  The  waves  then  propagate  no  longer  in  three-dimensional  space 
but  in  multi-dimensional  configuration  space.  From  this  one  sees  that  the 
quantum  mechanical  waves  are  indeed  something  quite  different  from  the 
light  waves  of  the  classical  theory. 

a  Note  that  the  first  prediction  of  such  diffraction  appears  in  fact  to  have  been  made 

by  de  Broglie  in  1923;  cf.  section  EHTTl  (eds.). 
b  Cf.  Born  (1969,  Appendix  XX).  The  current  vector,  as  defined  there,  is  the  usual 

j=  2¥?^(WV-VW0  (eds.). 


426 


M.  Born  and  W.  Heisenberg 


If  one  constructs  the  current  vector  just  defined  for  a  solution  of  the 
generalised  Schrodinger  equation  l(22|).  which  describes  time  evolution, 
one  sees  that  the  time  derivative  of  the  integral 


ranging  over  an  arbitrary  domain  of  the  independent  numerical  variables 
q' ,  can  be  transformed  into  the  surface  integral  of  the  current  vector  over 
the  boundary  of  that  domain.  From  this  it  emerges  that 


has  to  be  interpreted  as  particle  density  or,  better,  as  probability  density. 
The  solution  ip  itself  is  called  'probability  amplitude'. 

The  amplitude  <p(q' ,  W)  belonging  to  a  stationary  state  thus  yields  via 
\tp(q'>  W)\2  the  probability  that  for  given  energy  W  the  coordinate  q'  is 
in  some  given  element  dq'  ,39  But  this  can  be  generalised  immediately.  In 
fact,  <p(q' ,  W)  is  the  projection  of  the  principal  axis  W  of  the  operator 
H  onto  the  principal  axis  q'  of  the  operator  q.  One  can  therefore  say 
in  general  (Jordan  [39]):  if  two  physical  quantities  are  given  by  the 
operators  q  and  Q  and  if  one  knows  the  principal  axes  of  the  former,  for 
instance,  according  to  magnitude  and  direction,40  then  from  the  equation 


one  can  determine  the  principal  axes  Q'  of  Q41  and  their  projections 
i  Q')  on  the  axes  of  q.  Then  \ip(q' ,  Q')\2dq'  is  the  probability  that  for 
given  Q'  the  value  of  q'  falls  in  a  given  interval  dq'. 

If  conversely  one  imagines  the  principal  axes  of  Q  as  given,  then 
those  of  q  are  obtained42  through  the  inverse  rotation;  from  this  one 
easily  recognises  that  ip(Q',  q')  is  the  corresponding  amplitude,43  so  that 
\if{Q'-:1l)\  dQ'  means  the  probability,  given  q' ,  to  find  the  value  of  Q' 
in  dQ' .  If  for  instance  one  takes  for  Q  the  operator  p  =  J^,  then  one 
has  the  equation 


Qv(q',Q')=Q'ip(q',Q') 


2m  aq' 


h  dip 


thus 


ip  =  Ce2Trq'p'  . 


(28) 


This  is  therefore  the  probability  amplitude  for  a  pair  of  conjugate  quan- 
tities. For  the  probability  density  one  obtains  \ip\2  =  C,  that  is,  for  given 
q'  every  value  p'  is  equally  probable. 


Quantum  mechanics 


427 


This  is  an  important  result,  since  it  allows  one  to  retain  the  concept 
of  'conjugate  quantity'  even  in  the  case  where  the  differential  definition 
fails,  namely  when  the  quantity  q  has  only  a  discrete  spectrum  or  even 
when  it  is  only  capable  of  taking  finitely  many  values.  The  latter  for 
instance  is  the  case  for  angles  with  quantised  direction  [richtungsgequan- 
telte  Winkel]@  say  for  the  magnetic  electron,  or  in  the  Stern-Gerlach 
experiments.  One  can  then,  as  Jordan  does,  call  by  definition  a  quantity 
p  conjugate  to  q,  if  the  corresponding  probability  amplitude  has  the 
expression  ([28]) . 

As  the  amplitudes  are  the  elements  of  the  rotation  matrix  of  one 
orthogonal  system  into  another,  they  are  composed  according  to  the 
matrix  rule: 

¥>(?',  Q')  =  J  <K?',  &)x{p,Q?W  ;  (29) 

in  the  case  of  discrete  spectra,  instead  of  the  integral  one  has  finite 
or  infinite  sums.  This  is  the  general  formulation  of  the  theorem  of  the 
interference  of  probabilities.  As  an  application,  let  us  look  again  at 
formula  (|24|.  Here  cn(t)  was  the  amplitude  for  the  probability  that 
the  system  at  time  t  has  energy  Wn;  <Pn(<l')  ls  the  amplitude  for  the 
probability  that  for  given  energy  Wn  the  coordinate  q'  has  a  given  value. 
Thus 

¥3(g'!t)=^cn(t)<(g') 

n 

expresses  the  amplitude  for  the  probability  that  q'  at  time  t  has  a  given 
value. 

Alongside  the  concept  of  the  relative  state  probability  \(p(q' ,  Q')\2,  the- 
re also  occurs  the  concept  of  the  transition  probability,44  namely,  every 
time  one  considers  a  system  as  depending  on  an  external  parameter, 
be  it  time  or  any  property  of  a  weakly  coupled  external  system.  Then 
the  system  of  principal  axes  of  any  quantity  becomes  dependent  on  this 
parameter;  it  experiences  a  rotation,  represented  by  an  orthogonal  trans- 
formation S(q',q"),  in  which  the  parameter  enters  (as  in  formula  (|25l)  j. 
The  quantities  \S(q' ,  q")\2  are  the  'transition  probabilities';45  in  general, 
however,  they  are  not  independent,  instead  the  'transition  amplitudes' 
are  composed  according  to  the  interference  rule. 

a  This  was  a  standard  term  referring  to  the  fact  that  in  the  presence  of  an  external 
magnetic  field,  the  projection  of  the  angular  momentum  in  the  direction  of  the 
field  has  to  be  quantised  (quantum  number  m).  Therefore,  the  direction  of  the 
angular  momentum  with  respect  to  the  magnetic  field  can  be  said  to  be  quantised. 
Cf.  Born  (f969,  p.  f2f)  (eds.). 


428 


M.  Born  and  W.  Heisenberg 


III.  —  Formulation  of  the  principles  and  delimitation  of 

THEIR  SCOPE 

After  the  general  concepts  of  the  theory  have  been  developed  through 
analysis  of  empirical  findings,  the  dual  task  arises,  first  of  giving  a 
system  of  principles  as  simple  as  possible  and  connected  directly  to 
the  observations,  from  which  the  entire  theory  can  be  deduced  as  from 
a  mathematical  system  of  axioms,  and  second  of  critically  scrutinising 
experience  to  assure  oneself  that  no  observation  conceivable  by  today's 
means  stands  in  contradiction  to  the  principles. 

Jordan  [39]  has  formulated  such  a  'system  of  axioms',  which  takes  the 
following  statements  as  fundamental:46 

1)  One  requires  for  each  pair  of  quantum  mechanical  quantities  q,  Q  the 
existence  of  a  probability  amplitude  ip(q',Q'),  such  that  \(p\2  gives  the 
probability47  that  for  given  Q1  the  value  of  q'  falls  in  a  given  infinitesimal 
interval. 

2)  Upon  permutation  of  q  and  Q,  the  corresponding  amplitude  should 
be^(QW)- 

3)  The  theorem  ([29|)  of  the  composition  of  probability  amplitudes. 

4)  To  each  quantity  q  there  should  belong  a  canonically  conjugate  one  p, 
defined  by  the  amplitude  lf28j) .  This  is  the  only  place  where  the  quantum 
constant  h  appears.48 

Finally  one  also  takes  as  obvious  that,  if  the  quantities  q  and  Q  are 
identical,  the  amplitude  <p{q',q")  becomes  equal  to  the  'unit  matrix' 
8{q'  —  q"),  that  is,  always  to  zero,  except  when  q'  =  q" .  This  assumption 
and  the  multiplication  theorem  3)  together  characterise  the  amplitudes 
thus  defined  as  the  coefficients  of  an  orthogonal  transformation;  one 
obtains  the  orthogonality  conditions  simply  by  stating  that  the  compo- 
sition of  the  amplitude  belonging  to  q,  Q  with  that  belonging  to  Q,  q 
must  yield  the  identity. 

One  can  then  reduce  all  given  quantities,  including  the  operators,  to 
amplitudes  by  writing  them  as  integral  operators  as  in  formula  (jT3j) . 
The  noncommutative  operator  multiplication  is  then  a  consequence  of 


Quantum  mechanics 


429 


the  axioms  and  loses  all  the  strangeness  attached  to  it  in  the  original 
matrix  theory. 

Dirac's  method  [38]  is  completely  equivalent  to  Jordan's  formulation, 
except  in  that  he  does  not  arrange  the  principles  in  axiomatic  formQ 

This  theory  now  indeed  summarises  all  of  quantum  mechanics  in  a 
system  in  which  the  simple  concept  of  the  calculable  probability  [bere- 
chenbare  Wahrscheinlichkeit]49  for  a  given  event  plays  the  main  role.50 
It  also  has  some  shortcomings,  however.  One  formal  shortcoming  is  the 
occurrence  of  improper  functions,  like  the  Dirac  S,  which  one  needs  for 
the  representation  of  the  unit  matrix  for  continuous  ranges  of  variables. 
More  serious  is  the  circumstance  that  the  amplitudes  are  not  directly 
measurable  quantities,  rather,  only  the  squares  of  their  moduli;  the  phase 
factors  are  indeed  essential  for  how  different  phenomena  are  connected 
[fur  den  Zusammenhang  der  verschiedenen  Erscheinungen  wesentlich], 
but  are  only  indirectly  determinable,  exactly  as  phases  in  optics  are 
deduced  indirectly  by  combining  measurements  of  intensity.  It  is,  howe- 
ver, a  tried  and  proven  principle,  particularly  in  quantum  mechanics, 
that  one  should  introduce  as  far  as  possible  only  directly  observable 
quantities  as  fundamental  concepts  of  a  theory.  This  defect51  is  related 
mathematically  to  the  fact  that  the  definition  of  probability  in  terms 
of  the  amplitudes  does  not  express  the  invariance  under  orthogonal 
transformations  of  the  Hilbert  space  (canonical  transformations) . 

These  gaps  in  the  theory  have  been  filled  by  von  Neumann  [41,42]. 
There  is52  an  invariant  definition  of  the  eigenvalue  spectrum  for  arbitrary 
operators,  and  of  the  relative  probabilities,  without  presupposing  the 
existence  of  eigenfunctions  or  indeed  using  improper  functions.  Even 
though  this  theory  has  not  yet  been  elaborated  in  all  directions,  one 
can  however  say  with  certainty  that  a  mathematically  irreproachable 
grounding  of  quantum  mechanics  is  possible. 

Now  the  second  question  has  to  be  answered:  is  this  theory  in  accord 
with  the  totality  of  our  experience?  In  particular,  given  that  the  indivi- 
dual process  is  only  statistically  determined,  how  can  the  usual  determi- 
nistic order  be  preserved  in  the  composite  macroscopic  phenomena?53 

The  most  important  step  in  testing  the  new  conceptual  system  in 
this  direction  consists  in  the  determination  of  the  boundaries  within 
which  the  application  of  the  old  (classical)  words  and  concepts  is  allowed, 
such  as  'position,  velocity,  momentum,  energy  of  a  particle  (electron)' 
(Heisenberg  [46]).  It  now  turns  out  that  all  these  quantities  can  be 

a  There  are  nevertheless  some  differences  between  the  approaches  of  Dirac  and 
Jordan.  Cf.  Darrigol  (1992,  pp.  343-4)  (eds.). 


430 


M.  Born  and  W.  Heisenberg 


individually  exactly  measured  and  defined,  as  in  the  classical  theory,  but 
that  for  simultaneous  measurements  of  canonically  conjugate  quantities 
(more  generally:  quantities  whose  operators  do  not  commute)  one  cannot 
get  below  a  characteristic  limit  of  indeterminacy  [Unbestimmtheit]  @  To 
determine  this,  according  to  Bohr  [47]54  one  can  start  quite  generally 
from  the  empirically  given  dualism  between  waves  and  corpuscles.  One 
has  essentially  the  same  phenomenon  already  in  every  diffraction  of  light 
by  a  slit.  If  a  wave  impinges  perpendicularly  on  an  (infinitely  long)  slit 
of  width  qi,  then  the  light  distribution  as  a  function  of  the  deviation 
angle  <p  is  given  according  to  Kirchhoff  by  the  square  of  the  modulus  of 
the  quantity 


r+q-r 

i  /       e^sinv«dq  =  2a 


sin  ^  — —  sin  ip 

— —  smip 
A 


and  thus  ranges  over  a  domain  whose  order  of  magnitude  is  given  by55 
sin^i  =  ^  and  gets  ever  larger  with  decreasing  slit  width  q\.  If  one 
considers  this  process  from  the  point  of  view  of  the  corpuscular  theory, 
and  if  the  association  given  by  de  Broglie  of  frequency  and  wavelength 
with  energy  and  momentum  of  the  light  quantum  is  valid, 

hv  =  W,     —  =  P  , 
A 

then  the  momentum  component  perpendicular  to  the  direction  of  the 
slit  is 

h  . 

p  =  P  sin  tp  —  —  sin  ip  . 
A 

One  sees  thus  that  after  the  passage  through  the  slit  the  light  quanta 
have  a  distribution  whose  amplitude  is  given  by 

precisely  as  quantum  mechanics  requires  for  two  canonically  conjugate 
variables;  further,  the  width  of  the  domain  of  the  variable  p  that  contains 
the  greatest  number  of  light  quanta  is 

PX  h 

pi  =  P  sm  (pi  =          =  —  . 

9i  9i 

a  Here  and  in  the  following,  the  choice  of  translation  reflects  the  characteristic 
terminology  of  the  original.  Born  and  Heisenberg  use  the  terms  'Unbestimmtheit' 
(indeterminacy)  and  'Ungenauigkeit'  (imprecision),  while  the  standard  German 
terms  today  are  'Unbestimmtheit'  and  'Unscharfe'  (unsharpness)  (eds.). 


Quantum  mechanics 


431 


By  general  considerations  of  this  kind  one  arrives  at  the  insight  that 
the  imprecisions  (average  errors)  of  two  canonically  conjugate  variables 
p  and  q  always  stand  in  the  relation 

Piqi  >  h  .  (30) 

The  narrowing  of  the  range  of  one  variable,  which  forms  the  essence  of  a 
measurement,  widens  unfailingly  the  range  of  the  other.  The  same  follows 
immediately  from  the  mathematical  formalism  of  quantum  mechanics  on 
the  basis  of  formula  (|28)l.  The  actual  meaning  of  Planck's  constant  h  is 
thus  that  it  is  the  universal  measure  of  the  indeterminacy  that  enters 
the  laws  of  nature  through  the  dualism  of  waves  and  corpuscles. 

That  quantum  mechanics  is  a  mixture  of  strictly  mechanical  and  stati- 
stical principles  can  be  considered  a  consequence  of  this  indeterminacy. 
Indeed,  in  the  classical  theory  one  may  fix  the  state  of  a  mechanical 
system  by,  for  instance,  measuring  the  initial  values  of  p  and  q  at  a 
certain  instant.  In  quantum  mechanics  such  a  measurement  of  the  initial 
state  is  possible  only  with  the  accuracy  (|30"f .  Thus  the  values  of  p  and  q 
are  known  also  at  later  times  only  statistically. 

The  relation  between  the  old  and  the  new  theory  can  therefore  be 
described  thus: 

In  classical  mechanics  one  assumes  the  possibility  of  determining  ex- 
actly the  initial  state;  the  further  development  is  then  determined  by 
the  laws  themselves. 

In  quantum  mechanics,  because  of  the  imprecision  relation,  the  result 
of  each  measurement  can  be  expressed  by  the  choice  of  appropriate  initial 
values  for  probability  functions;  the  quantum  mechanical  laws  determine 
the  change  (wave-like  propagation)  of  these  probability  functions.  The 
result  of  future  experiments  however  remains  in  general  indeterminate 
and  only  the  expectation56  of  the  result  is  statistically  constrained.  Each 
new  experiment  replaces  the  probability  functions  valid  until  now  with 
new  ones,  which  correspond  to  the  result  of  the  observation;  it  separates 
the  physical  quantities  into  known  and  unknown  (more  precisely  and  less 
precisely  known)  quantities  in  a  way  characteristic  of  the  experiment. 

That  in  this  view  certain  laws,  like  the  principles  of  conservation  of 
energy  and  momentum,  are  strictly  valid,  follows  from  the  fact  that  they 
are  relations  between  commuting  quantities  (all  quantities  of  the  kind  q 
or  all  quantities  of  the  kind  p)  O 

a  A  similar  but  more  explicit  phrasing  is  used  by  Born  (1926e,  lecture  15):  assuming 
that  H(p,q)  =  H(p)  +  H(q),  the  time  derivatives  not  only  of  H  but  also  of  all 
components  of  momentum  and  of  angular  momentum  have  the  form  f(q)  +  g(p) 


432 


M.  Born  and  W.  Heisenberg 


The  transition  from  micro-  to  macromechanics  results  naturally  from 
the  imprecision  relation  because  of  the  smallness  of  Planck's  constant  h. 
The  fact  of  the  propagation,57  the  'melting  away'  of  a  'wave  or  probabi- 
lity packet'  is  crucial  to  this.  For  some  simple  mechanical  systems  (free 
electron  in  a  magnetic  or  electric  field  (Kennard  [50]),  harmonic  oscillator 
(Schrodinger  [25])),  the  quantum  mechanical  propagation  of  the  wave 
packet  agrees  with  the  propagation  of  the  system  trajectories  that  would 
occur  in  the  classical  theory  if  the  initial  conditions  were  known  only  with 
the  precision  restriction  l[3"0|).  Here  the  purely  classical  treatment  of  a 
and  f3  particles,  for  instance  in  the  discussion  of  Wilson's  photographs, 
immediately  finds  its  justification.  But  in  general  the  statistical  laws  of 
the  propagation  of  a  'packet'  for  the  classical  and  the  quantum  theory 
are  different;  one  has  particularly  extreme  examples  of  this  in  the  cases  of 
'diffraction'  or  'interference'  of  material  rays,  as  in  the  already  mentioned 
experiments  of  Davisson,  Kunsman  and  Germer  [18,19]  on  the  reflection 
of  electrons  by  metallic  crystals. 

That  the  totality  of  experience  can  be  fitted  into  the  system  of  this 
theory  can  of  course  be  established  only  by  calculation  and  discussion  of 
all  the  experimentally  accessible  cases.  Individual  experimental  setups,58 
in  which  the  suspicion  of  a  contradiction  with  the  precision  limit  |30|l 
might  arise,  have  been  discussed  [46,47];  every  time  the  reason  for  the 
impossibility  of  fixing  exactly  all  determining  data  could  be  exhibited 
intuitively  [anschaulich  aufgewiesen] . 

There  remains  only  to  survey  the  most  important  consequences  of  the 
theory  and  their  experimental  verification. 

IV.  —  Applications  of  quantum  mechanics 

In  this  section  we  shall  briefly  discuss  those  applications  of  quantum 
mechanics  that  stand  in  close  relation  to  questions  of  principle.  Here  the 
Uhlenbeck-Goudsmit  theory  of  the  magnetic  electron  shall  be  mentio- 
ned first.  Its  formulation  and  the  treatment  of  the  anomalous  Zeeman 
effects  with  the  matrix  calculus  raise  no  difficulties  [11];  the  treatment 
with  the  method  of  eigenoscillations  succeeds  only  with  the  help  of  the 
general  Dirac-Jordan  theory  (Pauli  [45]).  Here,  two  three-dimensional 
wave  functions  are  associated  with  each  electron.  It  becomes  natural 
thereby  to  look  for  an  analogy  between  matter  waves  and  polarised 

with  suitable  functions  /  and  g.  Born  states  that  since  all  q  commute  with  one 
another  and  all  p  commute  with  one  another,  the  expressions  f(q)+g{p)  will  vanish 
under  the  same  circumstances  as  in  classical  mechanics  (eds.). 


Quantum  mechanics 


433 


light  waves,  which  in  fact  can  be  carried  through  to  a  certain  extent 
(Darwin  [49],  Jordan  [53]).  What  is  common  to  both  phenomena  is  that 
the  number  of  terms  is  finite,  so  the  representative  matrix  is  also  finite 
(two  arrangements  [Einstellungen]  for  the  electron,  two  directions  of 
polarisation  for  light).  Here  the  definition  of  the  conjugate  quantity  by 
means  of  differentiation  thus  fails;  one  must  resort  to  Jordan's  definition 
by  means  of  the  probability  amplitudes  (formula  1(28)1 ). 

From  among  the  other  applications,  the  quantum  mechanics  of  many- 
body  problems  shall  be  mentioned  [28,29,40].  In  a  system  that  contains 
a  number  of  similar  particles  [gleicher  Partikel]  ,59  there  occurs  between 
them  a  kind  of  'resonance'  and  from  that  results  a  decomposition  of 
the  system  of  terms  into  subsystems  that  do  not  combine  (Heisenberg, 
Dirac  [28,37]).  Wigner  has  systematically  investigated  this  phenomenon 
by  resorting  to  group  theoretic  methods,  and  has  set  up  the  totality  of 
the  non-combining  systems  of  terms  [40] ;  Hund  has  managed  to  derive 
the  majority  of  these  results  by  comparatively  elementary  means  [48].  A 
special  role  is  played  by  the  'symmetric'  and  'antisymmetric'  subsystems 
of  terms;  in  the  former  every  eigenfunction  remains  unchanged  under 
permutation  of  arbitrary  similar  particles,  in  the  latter  it  changes  sign 
under  permutation  of  any  two  particles.  In  applying  this  theory  to  the 
spectra  of  atoms  with  several  electrons  it  turns  out  that  the  Pauli  equi- 
valence rukjf]  allows  only  the  antisymmetric  subsystem.60  On  the  basis 
of  this  insight  one  can  establish  quantum  mechanically  the  systematics 
of  the  line  spectra  and  of  the  electron  grouping  throughout  the  whole 
periodic  system  of  elements. 

If  one  has  a  large  number  of  similar  particles,  which  are  to  be  gi- 
ven a  statistical  treatment  (gas  theory),  one  obtains  different  statistics 
depending  on  whether  one  chooses  the  corresponding  wave  function 
according  to  the  one  or  the  other  subsystem.  The  symmetric  system  is 
characterised  by  the  fact  that  no  new  state  arises  under  permutation  of 
the  particles  from61  a  state  described  by  a  symmetric  eigenfunction;  thus 
all  permutations  that  belong  to  the  same  set  of  quantum  numbers  (lie  in 
the  same  'cell')  together  always  have  the  weight  1.  This  corresponds  to 
the  Bose-Einstein  statistics  [56,16].  In  the  antisymmetric  term  system 
two  quantum  numbers  may  never  become  equal,  because  otherwise  the 
eigenfunction  vanishes;  a  set  of  quantum  numbers  corresponds  therefore 
either  to  no  proper  function  at  all  or  at  most  to  one,  thus  the  weight  of 
a  state  is  0  or  1.  This  is  the  Fermi-Dirac  statistics  [57,37]. 

a  That  is,  the  Pauli  principle  applied  to  electrons  that  are  'equivalent'  in  the  sense 
of  having  the  same  quantum  numbers  n  and  I;  cf.  Born  (1969,  p.  178).  (eds.). 


434 


M.  Born  and  W.  Heisenberg 


Bose-Einstein  statistics  holds  for  light  quanta,  as  emerges  from  the 
validity  of  Planck's  radiation  formula.  Fermi-Dirac  statistics  certainly 
holds  for  (negative)  electrons,  as  emerges  from  the  above-mentioned 
systematics  of  the  spectra  on  the  basis  of  Pauli's  equivalence  rule,  and 
with  great  likelihood  also  for  the  positive  elementary  particles  (protons) ; 
one  can  infer  this  from  observations  of  band  spectra  [28,43]  and  in 
particular  from  the  specific  heat  of  hydrogen  at  low  temperatures  [55]. 62 
The  assumption  of  Fermi-Dirac  statistics  for  the  positive  and  negative 
elementary  particles  of  matter  has  the  consequence  that  Bose-Einstein 
statistics  holds  for  all  neutral  structures,  e.g.  molecules  (symmetry  of 
the  eigenfunctions  under  permutation  of  an  even  number63  of  particles 
of  matter).  Within  quantum  mechanics,  in  which  a  many-body  problem 
is  treated  in  configuration  space,  the  new  statistics  of  Bose-Einstein  and 
Fermi-Dirac  has  a  perfectly  legitimate  place,  unlike  in  the  classical  theo- 
ry, where  an  arbitrary  modification  of  the  usual  statistics  is  impossible; 
nevertheless  the  restrictions  made  on  the  form  of  the  eigenfunctions 
appear  as  an  arbitrary  additional  assumption.  In  particular,  the  example 
of  light  quanta  indicates  that  the  new  statistics  is  related  in  an  essential 
way  to  the  wave- like  properties  of  matter  and  light.  If  one  decomposes 
the  electromagnetic  oscillations  of  a  cavity  into  spatial  harmonic  com- 
ponents, each  of  these  behaves  like  a  harmonic  oscillator  as  regards  time 
evolution;  it  now  turns  out  that  under  quantisation  of  this  system  of 
oscillators  a  solution  results  that  behaves  exactly  like  a  system  of  light 
quanta  obeying  Bose-Einstein  statistics  [4].  Dirac  has  used  this  fact  for 
a  consistent  treatment  of  electrodynamical  problems  [51,52],  to  which 
we  shall  return  briefly. 

The  corpuscular  structure  of  light  thus  appears  here  as  quantisation 
of  light  waves,  such  as  vice  versa  the  wave  nature  of  matter  manifests 
itself  in  the  'quantisation'  of  the  corpuscular  motion.  Jordan  has  shown 
[54]  that  one  can  proceed  analogously  with  electrons;  one  has  then  to 
decompose  the  Schrodinger  function  of  a  cavity  into  fundamental  and 
harmonics  and  to  quantise  each  of  these  as  a  harmonic  oscillator,  in 
such  a  way  in  fact  that  Fermi-Dirac  statistics  is  obtained.  The  new 
quantum  numbers,  which  express  the  'weights'  in  the  usual  many-body 
theory,  have  thus  only  the  values  0  and  1.  Therefore  one  has  again  here  a 
case  of  finite  matrices,  which  can  be  treated  only  with  Jordan's  general 
theory.  The  existence  of  electrons  thus  plays  the  same  role  in  the  formal 
elaboration  of  the  theory  as  that  of  light  quanta;  both  are  discontinuities 
no  different  in  kind  from  the  stationary  states  of  a  quantised  system. 


Quantum  mechanics 


435 


However,  if  the  material  particles  stand  in  interaction  with  each  other, 
the  development  of  this  idea  might  run  into  difficulties  of  a  deep  nature. 

The  results  of  Dirac's  investigations  [51,52]  of  quantum  electrodyna- 
mics consist  above  all  in  a  rigorous  derivation  of  Einstein's  transition 
probabilities  for  spontaneous  emission^  Here  the  electromagnetic  field 
(resolved  into  quantised  harmonic  oscillations)  and  the  atom  are  consi- 
dered as  a  coupled  system  and  quantum  mechanics  is  applied  in  the  form 
of  the  integral  equation  (fl3|) .  The  interaction  energy  appearing  therein 
is  obtained  by  carrying  over  classical  formulas.  In  this  connection,  the 
nature  of  absorption  and  scattering  of  light  by  atoms  is  clarified.  Finally, 
Dirac  [52]  has  managed  to  derive  a  dispersion  formula  with  damping 
term;  this  includes  also  the  quantum  mechanical  interpretation  of  Wien's 
experiments  on  the  decay  in  luminescence  of  canal  rays@  His  method 
consists  in  considering  the  process  of  the  scattering  of  light  by  atoms 
as  a  collision  of  light  quanta.  However,  since  one  can  indeed  attribute 
energy  and  momentum  to  the  light  quantum  but  not  easily  a  spatial 
position,  there  is  a  failure  of  the  wave  mechanical  collision  theory  (Born 
[30]),  in  which  one  presupposes  knowledge  of  the  interaction  between 
the  collision  partners  as  a  function  of  the  relative  position.  It  is  thus 
necessary  to  use  the  momenta  as  independent  variables,  and  an  operator 
equation  of  matrix  character  instead  of  Schrodinger's  wave  equation. 
Here  one  has  a  case  where  the  use  of  the  general  points  of  view  which 
we  have  emphasised  in  this  report  cannot  be  avoided.  At  the  same  time, 
the  theory  of  Dirac  reveals  anew  the  deep  analogy  between  electrons  and 
light  quanta. 


Conclusion 

By  way  of  summary,  we  wish  to  emphasise  that  while  we  consider  the 
last-mentioned  enquiries,  which  relate  to  a  quantum  mechanical  treat- 
ment of  the  electromagnetic  field,  as  not  yet  completed  [unabgeschlos- 
sen] ,  we  consider  quantum  mechanics  to  be  a  closed  theory  [geschlossene 
Theorie],  whose  fundamental  physical  and  mathematical  assumptions 
are  no  longer  susceptible  of  any  modification.  Assumptions  about  the 
physical  meaning  of  quantum  mechanical  quantities  that  contradict  Jor- 
dan's or  equivalent  postulates  will  in  our  opinion  also  contradict  ex- 
perience. (Such  contradictions  can  arise  for  example  if  the  square  of 

a  As  opposed  to  the  induced  emission  discussed  on  p.  14241  (eds. ). 
b  See  above,  D.I143K eds.). 


436 


M.  Born  and  W.  Heisenberg 


the  modulus  of  the  eigenfunction  is  im 


iterpreted  as  charge 


On  the  question  of  the  'validity  of  the  law  of  causality'  we  have  this 
opinion:  as  long  as  one  takes  into  account  only  experiments  that  lie  in 
the  domain  of  our  currently  acquired  physical  and  quantum  mechanical 
experience,  the  assumption  of  indeterminism  in  principle,  here  taken  as 
fundamental,  agrees  with  experience.  The  further  development  of  the 
theory  of  radiation  will  change  nothing  in  this  state  of  affairs,  because 
the  dualism  between  corpuscles  and  waves,  which  in  quantum  mechanics 
appears  as  part  of  a  contradiction-free,  closed  theory  [abgeschlossene 
Theorie],  holds  in  quite  a  similar  way  for  radiation.  The  relation  between 
light  quanta  and  electromagnetic  waves  must  be  just  as  statistical  as  that 
between  de  Broglie  waves  and  electrons.  The  difficulties  still  standing  at 
present  in  the  way  of  a  complete  theory  of  radiation  thus  do  not  lie 
in  the  dualism  between  light  quanta  and  waves  —  which  is  entirely 
intelligible  —  instead  they  appear  only  when  one  attempts  to  arrive 
at  a  relativistically  invariant,  closed  formulation  of  the  electromagnetic 
laws;  all  questions  for  which  such  a  formulation  is  unnecessary  can  be 
treated  by  Dirac's  method  [51,52].  However,  the  first  steps  also  towards 
overcoming  these  relativistic  difficulties  have  already  been  made. 


a  See  Schrodinger's  report,  especially  his  section  I,  and  section l4~4l above  (eds.). 


Quantum  mechanics 
Bibliographjjf] 


437 


[I]  W.  Heisenberg,  Uber  quanten[theoretische]  Umdeutung  kinemati- 
scher  und  mechanischer  Beziehungen,  Z.  f.  Phys.,  33  (1925),  879. 

[2]  M.  Born  and  P.  Jordan,  Zur  Quantenmechanik,  I,  Z.  f.  Phys.,  34 

(1925)  ,  858. 

[3]  P.  Dirac,  The  fundamental  equations  of  quantum  mechanics,  Proc. 
Roy.  Soc.  A,  109  (1925),  642. 

[4]  M.  Born,  W.  Heisenberg  and  P.  Jordan,  Zur  Quantenmechanik,  II, 
Z.  f.  Phys.,  35  (1926),  557. 

[5]  N.  Bohr,  Atomtheorie  und  Mechanik,  Naturwiss.,  14  (1926),  1. 

[6]  W.  Pauli,  Uber  das  Wasserstoffspektrum  vom  Standpunkt  der  neuen 

Quantenmechanik,  Z.  f.  Phys.,  36  (1926),  336. 

[7]  P.  Dirac,  Quantum  mechanics  and  a  preliminary  investigation  of  the 

hydrogen  atom,  Proc.  Roy.  Soc.  A,  110  (1926),  561. 

[8]  G.  E.  Uhlenbeck  and  S.  Goudsmit,  Ersetzung  der  Hypothese  vom 

unmechanischen  Zwang  durch  eine  Forderung  beziiglich  des  inneren  Ver- 

haltens  jedes  einzelnen  Elektrons,  Naturw.,  13  (1925),  953. 64 

[9]    L.  H.  Thomas,  The  motion  of  the  spinning  electron,  Nature,  117 

(1926)  ,  514. 

[10]  J.  Frenkel,  Die  Elektrodynamik  des  rotierenden  Elektrons,  Z.  f. 
Phys.,  37  (1926),  243. 

[II]  W.  Heisenberg  and  P.  Jordan,  Anwendung  der  Quantenmechanik 
auf  das  Problem  der  anomalen  Zeemaneffekte,  Z.  f.  Phys.,  37  (1926), 
263. 

[12]    P.  Dirac,  Relativity  quantum  mechanics  with  an  application  to 
Compton  scattering,  Proc.  Roy.  Soc.  [A],  111  (1926),  405. 
[13]  P.  Dirac,  The  elimination  of  the  nodes  in  quantum  mechanics,  Proc. 
Roy.  Soc.  [A],  111  (1926),  281. 

[14]  P.  Dirac,  On  quantum  algebra,  Proc.  Cambridge  Phil.  Soc,  23 
(1926),  412. 

[15]  P.  Dirac,  The  Compton  effect  in  wave  mechanics,  Proc.  Cambridge 
Phil.  Soc,  23  (1926),  500. 

a  The  style  of  the  bibliography  has  been  both  modernised  and  uniformised. 
Amendments  and  fuller  details  (when  missing)  are  given  in  square  brackets, 
mostly  without  commentary.  Amendments  in  the  French  edition  of  mistakes  in 
the  typescript  (wrong  initials,  spelling  of  names  etc.)  are  taken  over  also  mostly 
without  commentary.  Mistakes  occurring  only  in  the  French  edition  are  endnoted 
(eds.). 


438 


M.  Born  and  W.  Heisenberg 


[16]  A.  Einstein,  Quantentheorie  des  einatomigen  idealen  Gases,  II,  Berl. 
Ber.  (1925),  [3].65 

[17]  W.  Elsasser,  Bemerkungen  zur  Quanten[mechanik]  freier  Elektro- 
nen,  Naturw.,  13  (1925),  711. 

[18]  C.  Davisson  and  [C]  Kunsman,  [The  scattering  of  low  speed 
electrons  by  [Platinum]  and  [Magnesium],  Phys.  Rev.,  22  (1923),  [242].66 
[19]  C.  Davisson  and  L.  Germer,  The  scattering  of  electrons  by  a  single 
crystal  of  Nickel,  Nature,  119  (1927),  558. 

[20]  E.  G.  Dymond,  On  electron  scattering  in  Helium,  Phys.  Rev.,  29 
(1927),  433. 

[21]  M.  Born  and  N.  Wiener,  Eine  neue  Formulierung  der  Quanten- 
gesetze  fur  periodische  und  [nichtperiodische]  Vorgange,  Z.  f.  Phys.,  36 
(1926),  174. 

[22]  C.  Eckart,  Operator  calculus  and  the  solution  of  the  equation[s]  of 
quantum  dynamics,  Phys.  Rev.,  28  (1926),  711. 

[23]  K.  Lanczos,  Uber  eine  feldmassige  Darstellung  der  neuen  Quanten- 
mechanik,  Z.  f.  Phys.,  35  (1926),  812. 

[24]  E.  Schrodinger,  Quantisierung  als  Eigenwertproblem,  I  to  IV,  Ann. 
d.  Phys.,  79  (1926),  361;  ibid.,  489;  ibid.,  80  (1926),  437;  ibid.,  81  (1926), 
109. 

[25]  E.  Schrodinger,  Der  stetige  Ubergang  von  der  Mikro-  zur  Makro- 
mechanik,  Naturw.,  14  (1926),  664. 

[26]  E.  Schrodinger,  Uber  das  Verhaltnis  der  Heisenberg-Born-Jordan- 
schen  Quantenmechanik  zu  der  meinen,  Ann.  d.  Phys.,  79  (1926),  734. 
[27]  P.  Jordan,  Bemerkung  iiber  einen  Zusammenhang  zwischen  Duanes 
Quantentheorie  der  Interferenz  und  den  de  Broglieschen  Wellen,  Z.  f. 
Phys.,  37  (1926),  376. 

[28]  W.  Heisenberg,  Mehrkorperproblem  und  Resonanz  in  der  Quanten- 
mechanik, I  and  II,  Z.  f.  Phys.,  38  (1926),  411;  Ibid.  41  (1927),  239. 
[29]    W.  Heisenberg,  Uber  die  Spektren  von  Atomsystemen  mit  zwei 
Elektronen,  Z.  f.  Phys.,  39  (1926),  499.67 

[30]  M.  Born,  Zur  Quantenmechanik  der  Stoss vorgange,  Z.  f.  Phys.,  37 
(1926),  863;  [Quantenmechanik  der  Stossvorgange],  ibid.,  38  (1926),  803. 
[31]  G.  Wentzel,  Zwei  Bemerkungen  iiber  die  Zerstreuung  korpuskularer 
Strahlen  als  Beugungserscheinung,  Z.  f.  Phys.,  40  (1926),  590. 
[32]  J.  R.  Oppenheimer,  Bemerkung  zur  Zerstreuung  der  a-Teilchen,  Z. 
f.  Phys.,  43  (1927),  413. 

[33]  W.  Elsasser,  Diss.  Gottingen,  [Zur  Theorie  der  Stossprozesse  bei 
Wasserstoff],  Z.  f.  Phys.,  [45  (1927),  522].68 


Quantum  mechanics 


439 


[34]  M.  Born,  Das  Adiabatenprinzip  in  der  Quantenmechanik,  Z.  f. 
Phys.,  40  ([1926]),  167.69 

[35]  W.  Heisenberg,  Schwankungserscheinungen  und  Quantenmechanik, 
Z.  f.  Phys.,  40  (1926),  501. 

[36]  P.  Jordan,  Uber  quantenmechanische  Darstellung  von  Quanten- 
spriingen,  Z.  f.  Phys.,  40  ([1927]),  661. 

[37]  P.  Dirac,  On  the  theory  of  quantum  mechanics,  Proc.  Roy.  Soc.  A, 
112  (1926),  661. 

[38]  P.  Dirac,  The  physical  interpretation  of  quantum  dynamics,  Proc. 
Roy.  Soc.  A,  113  ([1927]),  621. 

[39]   P.  Jordan,  Uber  eine  neue  Begriindung  der  Quantenmechanik,  Z. 
f.  Phys.,  40  ([1927]),  [809];  Second  Part,  ibid.,  44  (1927),  1. 
[40]  E.  Wigner,  Uber  nichtkombinierende  Terme  in  der  neueren  Quan- 
tentheorie,  First  Part,  Z.  f.  Phys.,  40  (1926),  492;  Second  Part,  ibid.,  40 
(1927),  883. 

[41]  D.  Hilbert,  [J.],  v.  Neumann  and  L.  Nordheim,  [Uber  die  Grund- 
lagen  der  Quantenmechanik,]  Mathem.  Ann.,  98  [1928],  1. 
[42]  [J.]  v.  Neumann,  [Mathematische  Begriindung  der  Quantenmecha- 
nik,] Gott.  Nachr.,  20  May  1927,  [1]. 

[43]  F.  Hund,  Zur  Deutung  der  Molekelspektr[en],  Z.  f.  Phys.,  40  ([1927]), 
742;  ibid.,  42  (1927),  93;  ibid.,  43  (1927),  805. 

[44]  W.  Pauli,  Uber  Gasentartung  und  Paramagnetismus,  Z.  f.  Phys., 
41  (1927),  81. 

[45]  W.  Pauli,  Zur  Quantenmechanik  des  magnetischen  Elektrons,  Z.  f. 
Phys.,  43  (1927),  601. 

[46]  W.  Heisenberg,  Uber  den  anschaulichen  Inhalt  der  quantentheore- 
tischen  Kinematik  und  Mechanik,  Z.  f.  Phys.,  43  (1927),  172.70 
[47]  N.  Bohr,  Uber  den  begrifHichen  Aufbau  der  Quantentheorie,  forth- 
coming [im  Erscheinen]. 

[48]  F.  Hund,  Symmetriecharaktere  von  Termen  bei  Systemen  mit  glei- 
chen  Partikeln  in  der  Quantenmechanik,  Z.  f.  Phys.,  43  (1927),  788. 
[49]  [C.  G.]  Darwin,  The  electron  as  a  vector  wave,  Nature,  119  (1927), 
282. 

[50]  E.  Kennard,  Zur  Quantenmechanik  einfacher  Bewegungstypen,  Z. 
f.  Phys.,  44  (1927),  326. 

[51]  P.  Dirac,  The  quantum  theory  of  emission  and  absorption  of  radi- 
ation, Proc.  Roy.  Soc.  A,  114  (1927),  243. 

[52]  P.  Dirac,  The  quantum  theory  of  dispersion,  Proc.  Roy.  Soc.  A, 
114  (1927),  710. 


440 


M.  Born  and  W.  Heisenberg 


[53]  P.  Jordan,  Uber  die  Polarisation  der  Lichtquanten,  Z.  f.  Phys.,  44 
(1927),  292. 

[54]  P.  Jordan,  Zur  Quantenmechanik  der  Gasentartung,  Z.  f.  Phys., 
forthcoming  [im  Erscheinen]  [44  (1927),  473]. 

[55]  D.  Dennison,  A  note  on  the  specific  heat  of  [the]  Hydrogen  [mole- 
cule], Proc.  Roy.  Soc.  A,  [115]  (1927),  483. 

On  statistics  also: 

[56]  N.  S.  Bose,  Plancks  Gesetz  und  Lichtquantenhypothese,  Z.  f.  Phys., 
26  (1924),  178. 

[57]  E.  Fermi,  [Sulla  quantizzazione  del  gas  perfetto  monatomico],  Lincei 
Rend.,  3  (1926),  145. 

General  surveys: 

[58]  M.  Born  (Theorie  des  Atombaus?)  [Probleme  der  Atomdynamik], 
Lectures  given  at  the  Massachusetts  Institute  of  Technology  (Springer, 
[1926]).71 

[59]  W.  Heisenberg,  [Tiber  q]uantentheoretische  Kinematik  und  Mecha- 
nik,  Mathem.  Ann.,  95  (1926),  683. 

[60]  W.  Heisenberg,  Quantenmechanik,  Naturw.,  14  (1926),  [989]. 
[61]    M.  Born,  Quantenmechanik  und  Statistik,  Naturw.,  15  (1927), 
238.72 

[62]  P.  Jordan,  Kausalitat  und  Statistik  in  der  modernen  Physik,  Na- 
turw., 15  (1927),  105. 

[63]  P.  Jordan,  Die  Entwicklung  der  neuen  Quantenmechanik,  Naturw., 
15  (1927),  614,  636. 73 


Discussion  441 

Discussion  of  Messrs  Born  and  Heisenberg's  reporiQ 

Mr  Dirac.  —  I  should  like  to  point  out  the  exact  nature  of  the  corre- 
spondence between  the  matrix  mechanics  and  the  classical  mechanics.  In 
classical  mechanics  one  can  work  out  a  problem  by  two  methods:  (1)  by 
taking  all  the  variables  to  be  numbers  and  working  out  the  motion,  e.g. 
by  Newton's  laws,  which  means  one  is  calculating  the  motion  resulting 
from  one  particular  set  of  numerical  values  for  the  initial  coordinates 
and  momenta,  and  (2)  by  considering  the  variables  to  be  functions  of 
the  J's  (action  variables)74  and  using  the  general  transformation  theory 
of  dynamics  and  thus  determining  simultaneously  the  motion  resulting 
from  all  possible  initial  conditions.75  The  matrix  theory  corresponds  to 
this  second  classical  method.  It  gives  information  about  all  the  states 
of  the  system  simultaneously.  A  difference  between  the  matrix  method 
and  the  second  classical  method  arises  since  in  the  latter  one  requires  to 
treat  simultaneously  only  states  having  nearly  the  same  J's  (one  uses, 
for  instance,  the  operators  ^j),  while  in  the  matrix  theory  one  must 
treat  simultaneously  states  whose  J's  differ  by  finite  amounts. 

To  get  results  comparable  with  experiment  when  one  uses  the  second 
classical  method,76  one  must  substitute  numerical  values  for  the  J's  in 
the  functions  of  the  J's  obtained  from  the  general  treatment.  One  has  to 
do  the  same  in  the  matrix  theory.  This  gives  rise  to  a  difficulty  since  the 
results  of  the  general  treatment  are  now  matrix  elements,  each  referring 
in  general  to  two  different  sets  of  J's.  It  is  only  the  diagonal  elements, 
for  which  these  two  sets  of  J's  coincide,  that  have  a  direct  physical 
interpretation. 

Mr  Lorentz.  —  I  was  very  surprised  to  see  that  the  matrices  satisfy 
equations  of  motion.  In  theory  that  is  very  beautiful,  but  to  me  it 
is  a  great  mystery,  which,  I  hope,  will  be  clarified.  I  am  told  that 
by  all  these  considerations  one  has  come  to  construct  matrices  that 
represent  what  one  can  observe  in  the  atom,  for  instance  the  frequencies 
of  the  emitted  radiation.  Nevertheless,  the  fact  that  the  coordinates,  the 
potential  energy,  and  so  on,  are  now  represented  by  matrices  indicates 
that  the  quantities  have  lost  their  original  meaning  and  that  one  has 
made  a  huge  step  in  the  direction  of  abstraction. 

Allow  me  to  draw  attention  to  another  point  that  has  struck  me.  Let 

a  The  two  discussion  contributions  by  Dirac  follow  his  manuscript  in  AHQP, 
microfilm  36,  section  10.  Deviations  in  the  French  edition  (which  may  or  may 
not  be  due  to  Dirac)  are  reported  in  endnote,  as  well  as  interesting  variants  or 
cancellations  in  the  manuscript,  and  punctuation  has  been  slightly  altered  (eds.). 


442 


M.  Born  and  W.  Heisenberg 


us  consider  the  elements  of  the  matrices  representing  the  coordinates  of 
a  particle  in  an  atom,  a  hydrogen  atom  for  instance,  and  satisfying  the 
equations  of  motion.  One  can  then  change  the  phase  of  each  element  of 
the  matrices  without  these  ceasing  to  satisfy  the  equations  of  motion; 
one  can,  for  instance,  change  the  time.  But  one  can  go  even  further  and 
change  the  phases,  not  arbitrarily,  but  by  multiplying  each  element  by 
a  factor  of  the  form  el^Sm~Sn\  and  this  is  quite  different  from  a  change 
of  time  originQ 

Now  these  matrix  elements  ought  to  represent  emitted  radiation.  If 
the  emitted  radiation  were  what  is  at  the  basis  of  all  this,  one  could 
expect  to  be  able  to  change  all  phases  in  an  arbitrary  way.  The  above- 
mentioned  fact  then  leads  us  very  naturally  to  the  idea  that  it  is  not  the 
radiation  that  is  the  fundamental  thing:  it  leads  us  to  think  that  behind 
the  emitted  oscillations  are  hidden  some  true  oscillations,  of  which  the 
emitted  oscillations  are  difference  oscillations. 

In  this  way  then,  in  the  end  there  would  be  oscillations  of  which  the 
emitted  oscillations  are  differences,  as  in  Schrodinger's  theory^  and  it 
seems  to  me  that  this  is  contained  in  the  matrices.  This  circumstance 
indicates  the  existence  of  a  simpler  wave  substrate. 

Mr  Born.  —  Mr  Lorentz  is  surprised  that  the  matrices  satisfy  the 
equations  of  motion;  with  regard  to  this  I  would  like  to  note  the  analogy 
with  complex  numbers.  Also  here  we  have  a  case  where  in  an  extension 
of  the  number  system  the  formal  laws  are  preserved  almost  completely. 
Matrices  are  some  kind  of  hypercomplex  numbers,  which  are  distinguis- 
hed from  the  ordinary  numbers  by  the  fact  that  the  law  of  commutativity 
no  longer  holds. 

Mr  Dirac.  —  The  arbitrary  phases  occurring  in  the  matrix  method 
correspond  exactly77  to  the  arbitrary  phases  in  the  second  classical 
method,  where  the  variables  are  functions  of  the  J's  and  w's  (action 
and  angle  variables).  There  are  arbitrary78  phases  in  the  w's,  which  may 
have  different  values  for  each  different  set  of  values  for  the  J's.  This  is 
completely  analogous79  to  the  matrix  theory,  in  which  each  arbitrary 
phase  is  associated  with  a  row  and  column,  and  therefore  with  a  set  of 

a  This  corresponds  of  course  to  the  choice  of  a  phase  factor  elSn  for  each  stationary 
state.  This  point  (among  others)  had  been  raised  in  the  correspondence  between 
Lorentz  and  Ehrenfest  in  the  months  preceding  the  conference.  See  Lorentz  to 
Ehrenfest,  4  July  1927,  AHQP-EHR-23  (in  Dutch)  (eds.). 

a  See  section  fOK  eds. ). 


Discussion 


443 


values  for  the  J's. 

Mr  Born.  —  The  phases  an  which  Mr  Lorentz  has  just  mentioned 
are  associated  with  the  different  energy  levels,  quite  like  in  classical 
mechanics.  I  do  not  think  there  is  anything  mysterious  hiding  behind 
this. 

Mr  Bohr.  —  The  issue  of  the  meaning  of  the  arbitrary  phases,  raised 
by  Mr  Lorentz,  is  of  very  great  importance,  I  think,  in  the  discussion 
of  the  consistency  of  the  methods  of  quantum  theory.  Although  the 
concept  of  phase  is  indispensable  in  the  calculations,  it  hardly  enters 
the  interpretation  of  the  observations. 


444 


Notes  to  pp.  407-424 


Notes  to  the  translation 

1  Here  and  in  a  number  of  places  in  the  following,  the  French  edition  omits 
quotation  marks  present  in  the  German  typescript.  They  are  tacitly 
restored  in  this  edition. 

2  The  French  edition  gives  '[47]'. 

3  [diskrete]  —  [determinees] 

4  The  French  edition  omits  '[60]'. 

5  [makroskopische]  —  [microscopiques] 

6  [durch  sinngemasse  Ubertragung]  —  [par  une  extension  logique] 

7  In  the  French  edition,  the  parenthetical  remark  is  given  as  a  footnote. 

8  The  typescript  does  not  give  the  reference  number,  only  the  brackets. 
The  French  edition  omits  the  reference  entirely.  The  mentioned  results 
are  to  be  found  in  section  4.1  of  Born,  Heisenberg  and  Jordan  (1926  [4]). 

9  Word  omitted  in  the  French  edition. 

10  [sind  sinngemasse  Ubertragungen]  —  [sont  des  extensions  logiques] 

11  Misprint  in  the  French  edition:  summation  index  'n'  in  the  equation. 

12  [orthogonale  Transformationen  der  ifik]  —  [transformations  orthogonales 
<Pk] 

13  [beschrankte  unendliche]  —  [partiellement  infinies] 

14  [Satze]  —  [principes] 

15  [noch  zuriickzukommen  haben]  —  [n'avons  pas  a  revenir] 

16  Word  omitted  in  the  French  edition. 

17  The  overbar  is  missing  in  the  original  typescript  (only  here),  but  is 
included  in  the  French  edition. 

18  The  typescript  reads:  'Lanczos  [  ]',  the  reference  number  is  added  in  the 
French  edition. 

19  The  typescript  consistently  gives  this  reference  as  '(q)',  the  French 
edition  as  l$9§\ 

20  Equation  number  missing  in  the  French  edition. 

21  [eine  Verschiebung  langs  ihrer  Verbindungslinie  mit  dem  Nullpunkt]  — 
[un  deplacement  de  leur  droite  de  jonction  avec  l'origine] 

22  [sie]  —  [ces  regies] 

23  [Vorgange]  —  [phenomenes] 

24  Both  the  manuscript  and  the  French  edition  read  'Hi'  and  '.Ha'  in  this 
paragraph  and  two  paragraphs  later,  and  'ff'1-1'  in  the  intervening 
paragraph.  We  have  uniformised  the  notation. 

25  The  French  edition  consistently  reads  '5f„\ 

26  The  right-hand  side  of  this  equation  reads  'X]m{/(W/'„)  —  f{Wm)}®nm' 
in  both  the  typescript  and  the  French  edition,  but  it  should  be  as  shown 
(see  above,  p.  11151). 

27  The  French  edition  gives  '©'. 

28  Both  the  typescript  and  the  French  edition  read  (only  here)  'ni,na'- 

29  Both  the  typescript  and  the  French  edition  read  '<J>nm'. 

30  Singular  in  the  French  edition. 

31  The  typescript  includes  the  square  brackets  but  no  reference  number. 
The  French  edition  omits  the  reference  entirely. 

32  Only  brackets  in  the  typescript,  references  omitted  in  the  French  edition. 

33  [abhangige]  —  [independante] 

34  The  French  edition  reads  '(c„fc)2'  instead  of  '|cn|2'  and  'nfc'  instead  of  'n'. 

35  The  French  edition  reads  'p„fc'  instead  of  '7^'- 


Notes  to  pp.  425-433 


445 


36  Both  the  typescript  and  the  French  edition  give  'fTT}',  but  this  should 
evidently  be  either  '  1(17)1'  or  'll2"2"aT)'. 

37  The  adjective  is  omitted  in  the  French  edition. 

38  ['Strahlvektor']  —  ['vecteur  radiant'] 

39  The  absolute  square  is  missing  in  the  German  typescript,  but  is  added  in 
the  French  edition. 

40  [des  einen,  etwa,  nach  Grosse  und  Richtung]  —  [de  l'un,  par  exemple  en 
grandeur  et  en  direction] 

41  [von  Q]  —  [et  Q] 

42  The  French  edition  has  a  prime  on  'q\ 

43  The  overbar  is  missing  in  the  German  typescript,  but  is  added  in  the 
French  edition. 

44  Throughout  this  paragraph,  the  French  edition  translates  'Ubergang'  as 
'transformation'  instead  of  'transition'. 

45  'S"  missing  in  the  French  edition. 

46  [das  folgende  Satze  zugrunde  legt]  —  [qui  est  a  la  base  des  theoremes 
suivants].  Note  that  'Satz'  can  indeed  mean  both  'statement'  and 
'theorem'. 

47  The  French  edition  omits  absolute  bars. 

48  The  'h'  is  present  in  the  French  edition  but  not  in  the  typescript. 

49  In  the  typescript,  this  is  typed  over  an  (illegible)  previous  alternative. 
Jordan  in  his  habilitation  lecture  (1927f  [62])  uses  the  term  'angebbare 
Wahrscheinlichkeit'  ('assignable  probability'  in  Oppenheimer's 
translation  (Jordan  1927g)). 

50  [in  dem  der  einfache  Begriff  der  berechenbaren  Wahrscheinlichkeit  fur  ein 
bestimmtes  Ereignis  die  Hauptrolle  spielt]  —  [dans  lequel  la  simple 
notion  de  la  probability  calculable  joue  le  role  principale  pour  un 
evenement  determine] 

51  [Uberstand]  —  [defaut].  The  word  'Uberstand'  may  be  characterising  the 
phases  as  some  kind  of  surplus  structure,  but  it  is  quite  likely  a  mistyping 
of  'Ubelstand',  which  can  indeed  be  translated  as  'defect',  as  in  the 
French  version. 

52  [Es  gibt]  —  [Cet  auteur  donne] 

53  [Wie  kann  insbesondere  bei  der  nur  statistischen  Bestimmtheit  des 
Einzelvorgangs  in  den  zusammengesetzten  makroskopischen 
Erscheinungen  die  gewohnte  deterministische  Ordnung  aufrecht  erhalten 
werden?]  —  [En  particulier  comment,  vu  la  determination  uniquement 
statistique  des  processus  individuels  dans  les  phenomenes  macroscopiques 
compliques,  l'ordre  deterministe  auquel  nous  sommes  accoutumes  peut-il 
etre  conserve?] 

54  This  reference  is  to  a  supposedly  forthcoming  'Uber  den  begrifnichen 
Aufbau  der  Quantentheorie'.  Yet,  no  such  published  or  unpublished  work 
by  Bohr  is  extant.  Some  pages  titled  'Zur  Frage  des  begrifnichen  Aufbaus 
der  Quantentheorie'  are  contained  in  the  folder  'Como  lecture  IF  in  the 
Niels  Bohr  archive,  microfilmed  in  AHQP-BMSS-11,  section  4.  See  also 
Bohr  (1985,  p.  478).  We  wish  to  thank  Felicity  Pors,  of  the  Niels  Bohr 
archive,  for  correspondence  on  this  point. 

55  The  French  edition  incorrectly  reads  'sint/Ji  =  ^'. 

56  [Erwartung]  —  [attente] 

57  [Ausbreitung]  —  [extension] 

58  [einzelne  Versuchsanordnungen]  —  [des  essais  isoles] 


446 


Notes  to  pp.  433-442 


59  Again,  the  terminology  has  changed  both  in  German  and  in  English.  The 
term  'similar  particles'  for  'identical  particles'  is  used  for  instance  by 
Dirac  (1927a  [37]). 

60  [nur  das  antisymmetrische  Teilsystem  zulasst]  —  [ne  permet  pas  le 
systeme  antisymetrique] 

61  [aus]  —  [dans] 

62  The  French  edition  gives  '[56]'. 

63  Both  the  German  version  followed  here  and  the  French  version  ('a  whole 
number  of  particles')  seem  rather  infelicitous. 

64  Both  the  typescript  and  the  French  edition  add  '(Magnetelektron)'.  The 
French  edition  reads  'Nature1 . 

65  Both  the  typescript  and  the  French  edition  read  'p.  5'. 

66  Typescript  and  published  volume  read  'Pt'  and  'Mg',  as  well  as  '243'. 

67  In  the  French  edition:  '409'. 

68  This  is  indeed  the  (abridged)  published  version  of  Elsasser's  Gottingen 
dissertation. 

69  In  the  French  edition:  'Das  Adiabatenprinzip  in  den  Quanten',  as  well  as 
'1927'  (the  latter  as  in  the  typescript). 

70  In  both  the  typescript  and  the  French  edition  the  title  of  the  paper  is 
given  as  'Uber  den  anschaulichen  Inhalt  der  Quantenmechanik'. 

71  Date  given  as  '1927'  in  typescript  and  volume. 

72  In  the  French  edition:  '288'. 

73  The  French  edition  omits  '614'. 

74  The  manuscript  includes  also  'and  w's'  and  'and  angle',  both  cancelled. 

75  The  French  edition  breaks  up  and  rearranges  this  sentence. 

76  The  French  edition  omits  the  temporal  clause. 

77  The  French  edition  reads  'trouvent  une  analogie'. 

78  In  the  manuscript  this  replaces  the  cancelled  word  'unknown'. 

79  In  the  manuscript  this  replaces  'corresponds  exactly'. 


Wave  mechanics^ 


By  Mr  E.  SCHRODINGER 


Introduction 

Under  this  name  at  present  two  theories  are  being  carried  on,  which 
are  indeed  closely  related  but  not  identical.  The  first,  which  follows  on 
directly  from  the  famous  doctoral  thesis  by  L.  de  Broglie,  concerns  waves 
in  three-dimensional  space.  Because  of  the  strictly  relativistic  treatment 
that  is  adopted  in  this  version  from  the  outset,  we  shall  refer  to  it  as  the 
four- dimensional  wave  mechanics.  The  other  theory  is  more  remote  from 
Mr  de  Broglie's  original  ideas,  insofar  as  it  is  based  on  a  wave- like  process 
in  the  space  of  position  coordinates  (g-space)  of  an  arbitrary  mechanical 
system.1  We  shall  therefore  call  it  the  multi- dimensional  wave  mechanics. 
Of  course  this  use  of  the  g-space  is  to  be  seen  only  as  a  mathematical  tool, 
as  it  is  often  applied  also  in  the  old  mechanics;  ultimately,  in  this  version 
also,  the  process  to  be  described  is  one  in  space  and  time.  In  truth, 
however,  a  complete  unification  of  the  two  conceptions  has  not  yet  been 
achieved.  Anything  over  and  above  the  motion  of  a  single  electron  could 
be  treated  so  far  only  in  the  m«W-dimensional  version;  also,  this  is  the 
one  that  provides  the  mathematical  solution  to  the  problems  posed  by 
the  Heisenberg-Born  matrix  mechanics.  For  these  reasons  I  shall  place 

a  Our  translation  follows  Schrodinger's  German  typescript  in  AHQP-RDN, 
document  M-1354.  Discrepancies  between  the  typescript  and  the  French  edition 
are  endnoted.  Interspersed  in  the  German  text,  Schrodinger  provided  his  own 
summary  of  the  paper  (in  French).  We  translate  this  in  the  footnotes.  The  French 
version  of  this  report  is  also  reprinted  in  Schrodinger  (1984,  vol.  3,  pp.  302-23) 
(eds.). 


447 


448 


E.  Schrddinger 


it  first,  hoping  in  this  way  also  to  illustrate  better  the  characteristic 
difficulties  of  the  as  such  more  beautiful  four-dimensional  version0 

I.  —  Multi-dimensional  theory 

Given  a  system  whose  configuration  is  described  by  the  generalised 
position  coordinates  qi,  92,  •  ■  ■ ,  qn,  classical  mechanics  considers  its  task 
as  being  that  of  determining  the  qk  as  functions  of  time,  that  is,  of 
exhibiting  all  systems  of  functions  <7i(i),  <72(t), . . .  ,qn(t)  that  correspond 
to  a  dynamically  possible  motion  of  the  system.  Instead,  according  to 
wave  mechanics  the  solution  to  the  problem  of  motion  is  not  given  by  a 
system  of  n  functions  of  the  single  variable  t,  but  by  a  single  function 
ip  of  the  n  variables  qi,q2,  ■  ■  ■  ,Qn  and  perhaps  of  time  (see  below). 
This  is  determined  by  a  partial  differential  equation  with  qi ,  qi , . . . ,  qn 
(and  perhaps  i)  as  independent  variables.  This  change  of  role  of  the 
(ft,  which  from  dependent  become  independent  variables,  appears  to  be 
the  crucial  point.  More  later  on  the  meaning  of  the  function  ip,  which 
is  still  controversial.  We  first  describe  how  it  is  determined,  thus  what 
corresponds  to  the  equations  of  motion  of  the  old  mechanics. 

First  let  the  system  be  a  conservative  one.  We  start  from  its  Hamil- 
tonian  function 

H =T+V , 

that  is,  from  the  total  energy  expressed  as  a  function  of  the  qk  and 
the  canonically-conjugate  momenta  pk-  We  take  H  to  be  a  homogeneous 
quadratic  function  of  the  qk  and  of  unity  and  replace  in  it  each  pk  by 
^■§^  and  unity  by  ip.  We  call  the  function  of  the  qk,  J^-  and  ip  thus 
obtained  L  (because  in  wave  mechanics  it  plays  the  role  of  a  Lagrange 
function).  Thus 

Now  we  determine  ip(qi,  92,  •  ■  ■ ,  Qn)  by  the  requirement  that  under  va- 
riation of  ip, 

5  J  Ldr  =  0    with    J  ip2dr  =  1  .  (2) 

a  Summary  of  the  introduction:  Currently  there  are  in  fact  two  [theories  of] 
wave  mechanics,  very  closely  related  to  each  other  but  not  identical,  that  is, 
the  relativistic  or  four- dimensional  theory,  which  concerns  waves  in  ordinary 
space,  and  the  multi- dimensional  theory,  which  originally  concerns  waves  in  the 
configuration  space  of  an  arbitrary  system.  The  former,  until  now,  is  able  to  deal 
only  with  the  case  of  a  single  electron,  while  the  latter,  which  provides  the  solution 
to  the  matrix  problems  of  Heisenberg-Born,  comes  up  against  the  difficulty  of  being 
put  in  relativistic  form.  We  start  with  the  latter. 


Wave  mechanics 


449 


The  integration  is  to  be  performed  over  the  whole  of  g-space  (on  whose 
perhaps  infinitely  distant  boundary,  dip  must  disappear).  However,  dr 
is  not  simply  the  product  of  the  dqk,  rather  the  'rationally  measured' 
volume  element  in  g-space: 

d2T 


dr  =  dqidq2  ■  ■  ■  dqn 


± 


dp1...  dpk 


(3) 


(it  is  the  volume  element  of  a  Riemanni&n  g-space,  whose  metric,  as 
for  instance  also  in  Hertz's  mechanics^  is  determined  by  the  kinetic 
energy).  —  Performing  the  variation,  taking  the  normalisation  constraint 
with  the  multiplier  [Factor]  —E,  yields  the  Euler  equation 

a  2 

A^  +  ^  {E-V)ip  =  Q  (4) 

(A  stands  for  the  analogue  of  the  Laplace  operator  in  the  generalised 
Riemannian  sense).  As  is  well  known, 

Ldr  =  E 

for  a  function  that  satisfies  the  Euler  equation  (J4j)  and  the  constraint  in 

Now,  it  turns  out  that  equation  Q  in  general  does  not  have,  for 
every  .E-value,  a  solution  ip  that  is  single-valued  and  always  finite  and 
continuous  together  with  its  first  and  second  derivatives;  instead,  in  all 
special  cases  examined  so  far,  this  is  the  case  precisely  for  the  S-values 
that  Bohr's  theory  would  describe  as  stationary  energy  levels  of  the 
system  (in  the  case  of  discrepancies,  the  recalculated  values  explain  the 
facts  of  experience  better  than  the  old  ones).  The  word  'stationary'  used 
by  Bohr  is  thus  given  a  very  pregnant  meaning  by  the  variation  problem 

We  shall  refer  to  these  values  as  eigenvalues,  Ef.,  and  to  the  corre- 
sponding solutions  ipk  as  eigenfunctionsEI  We  shall  number  the  eigenva- 
lues always  in  increasing  order  and  shall  number  repeatedly  those  with 
multiple  eigensolutions.  The  tpk  form  a  normalised  complete  orthogonal 
system  in  the  g-space,  with  respect  to  which  every  well-behaved  function 
of  the  qt  can  be  expanded  in  a  series.  Of  course  this  does  not  mean  that 
every  well-behaved  function  solves  the  homogeneous  equation  (@|)  and 

a  For  Schrodinger's  interest  in  Hertz's  work  on  mechanics,  see  Mehra  and  Rechenberg 

(1987,  pp.  522-32)  (eds.). 
b  As  a  rule,  in  certain  domains  of  the  energy  axis2  the  eigenvalue  spectrum  is 

continuous,  so  that  the  index  k  is  replaced  by  a  continuous  parameter.  In  the 

notation  we  shall  generally  not  take  this  into  account. 


450 


E.  Schrddinger 


thus  the  variation  problem,  because  Q  is  indeed  an  equation  system, 
each  single  eigensolution  ipk  satisfying  a  different  element  of  the  system, 
namely  the  one  with  E  —  -E/df] 

One  can  take  the  view  that  one  should  be  content  in  principle  with 
what  has  been  said  so  far  and  its  very  diverse  special  applications. 
The  single  stationary  states  of  Bohr's  theory  would  then  in  a  way  be 
described  by  the  eigenfunctions  ipk,  which  do  not  contain  time  at  allQ 
One  would  find  that  one  can  derive  much  more  from  them  that  is  worth 
knowing,  in  particular,  one  can  form  from  them,  by  fixed  general  rules, 
quantities  that  can  be  aptly  taken  to  be  jump  probabilities  between  the 
single  stationary  states.  Indeed,  it  can  be  shown  for  instance  that  the 
integral 


extended  to  the  whole  of  g-space,  yields  precisely  the  matrix  element 
bearing  the  indices  k  and  k'  of  the  'matrix  q'  in  the  Heisenberg-Born 
theory;  similarly,  the  elements  of  all  matrices  occurring  there  can  be 
calculated  from  the  wave  mechanical  eigenfunctions. 

The  theory  as  it  stands,  restricted  to  conservative  systems,  could  treat 
already  even  the  interaction  between  two  or  more  systems,  by  conside- 
ring these  as  one  single  system,  with  the  addition  of  a  suitable  term 
in  the  potential  energy  depending  on  the  coordinates  of  all  subsystems. 
Even  the  interaction  of  a  material  system  with  the  radiation  field  is 
not  out  of  reach,  if  one  imagines  the  system  together  with  certain  ether 
oscillators  (eigenoscillations  of  a  cavity)  as  a  single  conservative  system, 
positing  suitable  interaction  terms. 

On  this  view  the  time  variable  would  play  absolutely  no  role  in  an 
isolated  system  —  a  possibility  to  which  N.  Campbell  (Phil.  Mag.,  [1] 
(1926),  [1106])  has  recently  pointed.  Limiting  our  attention  to  an  isolated 
system,  we  would  not  perceive  the  passage  of  time  in  it  any  more  than 

a  Summary  of  the  above:  Wave  mechanics  demands  that  events  in  a  mechanical 
system  that  is  in  motion  be  described  not  by  giving  n  generalised  coordinates 
gi,  52  ■  ■  ■  Qn  as  functions  of  the  time  t,  but  by  giving  a  single  function  \ip\  of  the  n 
variables  gi,  qi . . .  qn  and  maybe  of  the  time  t.  The  system  of  equations  of  motion 
of  classical  mechanics  corresponds  in  wave  mechanics  to  a  single  partial  differential 
equation,  eq.  J4j,  which  can  be  obtained  by  a  certain  variational  procedure.  E  is 
a  Lagrange  multiplier,  V  is  the  potential  energy,  a  function  of  the  coordinates; 
h  is  Planck's  constant,  A  denotes  the  Laplacian  in  g-space,  generalised  in  the 
sense  of  Riemann.  One  finds  in  specific  cases  that  finite  and  continuous  solutions, 
'eigenfunctions'  Vfe  of  eq.  j4),  exist  only  for  certain  'eigenvalues'  of  E.  The  set 
of  these  functions  forms  a  complete  orthogonal  system  in  the  coordinate  space. 
The  eigenvalues  are  precisely  the  'stationary  energy  levels'  of  Bohr's  theory. 

a  Cf.  section RTTUeds.). 


(5) 


Wave  mechanics 


451 


we  can  notice  its  possible  progress  in  space,  an  assimilation  of  time 
to  the  spatial  coordinates  that  is  very  much  in  the  spirit  of  relativity. 
What  we  would  notice  would  be  merely  a  sequence  of  discontinuous 
transitions,  so  to  speak  a  cinematic  image,  but  without  the  possibility  of 
comparing  the  time  intervals  between  the  transitions.  Only  secondarily, 
and  in  fact  with  increasing  precision  the  more  extended  the  system, 
would  a  statistical  definition  of  time  result  from  counting  the  transitions 
taking  place  (Campbell's  'radioactive  clock').  Of  course  then  one  cannot 
understand  the  jump  probability  in  the  usual  way  as  the  probability 
of  a  transition  calculated  relative  to  unit  time.  Rather,  a  single  jump 
probability  is  then  utterly  meaningless;  only  with  two  possibilities  for 
jumps,  the  probability  that  the  one  may  happen  before  the  other  is  equal 
to  its  jump  probability  divided  by  the  sum  of  the  two. 

I  consider  this  view  the  only  one  that  would  make  it  possible  to  hold 
on  to  'quantum  jumps'  in  a  coherent  way.  Either  all  changes  in  nature 
are  discontinuous  or  not  a  single  one.  The  first  view  may  have  many 
attractions;  for  the  time  being  however,  it  still  poses  great  difficulties. 
If  one  does  not  wish  to  be  so  radical  and  give  up  in  principle  the  use 
of  the  time  variable  also  for  the  single  atomistic  system,  then  it  is  very 
natural  to  assume  that  it  is  contained  hidden  also  in  equation  (j4]).  One 
will  conjecture  that  equation  system  ((4])  is  the  amplitude  equation  of  an 
oscillation  equation,  from  which  time  has  been  eliminated  by  setting 

ip  ~  e2mut  .  (6) 

E  must  then  be  proportional  to  a  power  of  v,  and  it  is  natural  to  set 
E  =  hv.  Then  the  following  is  the  oscillation  equation  that  leads  to  (J4j) 
with  the  ansatz  |(6])|B 

Now  this  is  satisfied  not  just  by  a  single3 

h 

a  Schrodinger  introduces  the  time-dependent  equation  in  his  fourth  paper  on 
quatisation  (1926g).  There  (p.  112),  Schrodinger  leaves  the  sign  of  time 
undetermined,  settling  on  the  same  convention  as  in  J(3j  —  the  opposite  of  today's 
convention  —  on  pp.  114-15.  As  late  as  Schrodinger  (1926h,  p.  1065),  one  reads 
that  'the  most  general  solution  of  the  wave-problem  will  be  (the  real  part  of) 
[eq.  (27)  of  that  paper]'.  Instead  the  wave  function  is  characterised  as  'essentially 
complex'  in  Schrodinger  (1927c,  fn.  3  on  p.  957)  (eds.). 

b  Recall  that  Schrodinger  does  not  in  fact  set  m  =  1,  but  absorbs  the  mass  in  the 
definition  of  A  (eds.). 


452 


E.  Schrddinger 


but  by  an  arbitrary  linear  combination 

oo 

V^^Tc^e2™*'  (8) 

with  arbitrary  (even  complex)  constants  Ck  ■  If  one  considers  this  tp  as 
the  description4  of  a  certain  sequence  of  phenomena  in  the  system,  then 
this  is  now  given  by  a  (complex)  function  of  the  qi,q2,  ■  ■  ■  ,qn  and  of 
time,  a  function  which  can  even  be  given  arbitrarily  at  t  =  0  (because  of 
the  completeness5  and  orthogonality  of  the  ipk)',  the  oscillation  equation 
(O ,  or  its  solution  with  suitably  chosen  Ck ,  then  governs  the  temporal 
development.  Bohr's  stationary  states  correspond  to  the  eigenoscillations 
of  the  structure  (one  c&  =  1,  all  others  =  0). 

There  now  seems  to  be  no  obstacle  to  assuming  that  equation  (f7|  is 
valid  immediately  also  for  non-conservative  systems  (that  is,  V  may 
contain  time  explicitly).  Then,  however,6  the  solution  no  longer  has 
the  simple  form  JS]) .  A  particularly  interesting  application  hereof  is  the 
perturbation  of  an  atomic  system  by  an  electric  alternating  field.  This 
leads  to  a  theory  of  dispersion,  but  we  must  forgo  here  a  more  detailed 
description  of  the  same.  —  From  |(7j)  there  always  follows 

jt  J  dmH?  =  0  .  (9) 

(An  asterisk  shall  always  denote  the  complex  conjugate.7)  Instead  of  the 
earlier  normalisation  condition  |f5]),  one  can  thus  require 

J  drrpip*  =  1  ,  (10) 

which  in  the  conservative  case,  equation  J8]),  means 

oo 

5>C£  =  10  (11) 
fc=l 

a  Summary  of  the  above:  Even  limiting  oneself  to  what  has  been  said  up  to  now,  it 
would  be  possible  to  derive  much  of  interest  from  these  results,  for  instance  the 
transition  probabilities,  formula  J5j  yielding  precisely  the  matrix  element  qi(k,k') 
for  the  same  mechanical  problem  formulated  according  to  the  Heisenberg-Born 
theory.  Although  we  have  restricted  ourselves  so  far  to  conservative  systems,  it 
would  be  possible  to  treat  in  this  way  also  the  mutual  action  between  several 
systems  and  even  between  a  material  system  and  the  radiation  field;  one  would 
only  have  to  add  all  relevant  systems  to  the  system  under  consideration.  Time 
does  not  appear  at  all  in  our  considerations  and  one  could  imagine  that  the  only 
events  that  occur  are  sudden  transitions  from  one  quantum  state  of  the  total 
system  to  another  quantum  state,  as  Mr  N.  Campbell  has  recently  thought.  Time 
would  be  defined  only  statistically  by  counting  the  quantum  jumps  (Mr  Campbell's 


Wave  mechanics 


453 


What  does  the  '(/'-function  mean  now,  that  is,  how  does  the  system 
described  by  it  really  look  like  in  three  dimensions?  Many  physicists 
today  are  of  the  opinion  that  it  does  not  describe8  the  occurrences  in  an 
individual  system,9  but  only  the  processes  in  an  ensemble  of  very  many 
like  constituted  systems  that  do  not  sensibly  influence  one  another10 
and  are  all  under  the  very  same  conditions.  I  shall  skip  this  point  of 
view,  since  others  are  presenting  itE  I  myself  have  so  far  found  useful 
the  following  perhaps  somewhat  naive  but  quite  concrete  idea  [dafiir 
recht  greifbare  Vorstellung] .  The  classical  system  of  material  points  does 
not  really  exist,  instead  there  exists  something  that  continuously  fills 
the  entire  space  and  of  which  one  would  obtain  a  'snapshot'  if  one 
dragged  the  classical  system,  with  the  camera  shutter  open,  through 
all  its  configurations,  the  representative  point  in  g-space  spending  in 
each  volume  element  dr  a  time  that  is  proportional  to  the  instantaneous 
value  of  ipip*.  (The  value  of  ipip*  f°r  omv  one  value  of  the  argument  t  is 
thus  in  question.)  Otherwise  stated:  the  real  system  is  a  superposition  of 
the  classical  one  in  all  its  possible  states,  using  ipip*  as  'weight  function'. 

The  systems  to  which  the  theory  is  applied  consist  classically  of  several1 
charged  point  masses.  In  the  interpretation  just  discussed13  the  charge 
of  every  single  one  of  these  is  distributed  continuously  across  space, 
the  individual  point  mass  with  charge  e  yielding  to  the  charge  in  the 
three-dimensional  volume  element  dx  dy  dz  the  contribution14 


The  prime  on  the  integration  sign  means:  one  has  to  integrate  only  over 
the  part  of  the  g-space  corresponding  to  a  position  of  the  distinguished 
point  mass  within  dxdydz.  —  Since  ipip*  in  general  depends  on  time, 
these  charges  fluctuate;  only  in  the  special  case  of  a  conservative  system 

'radioactive  clock').  —  Another,  less  radical,  point  of  view  is  to  assume  that  time 
is  hidden  already  in  the  family  of  equations  |[4j  parametrised  by  E,  this  family 
being  the  amplitude  equation  of  an  oscillation  equation,  from  which  time  has  been 
eliminated  by  the  ansatz  {6J.  Assuming  hv  =  E  one  arrives  at  eq.  (0,  which, 
because  it  no  longer  contains  the  frequency  v,  is  solved  by  the  series  ([SJ ,  where 
the  Cfc  are  arbitrary,  generally  complex,  constants.  Now  if)  is  a  function  of  the 
91)92  •  •  •  In  as  well  as  of  time  t  and,  by  a  suitable  choice  of  the  cj.,  it  can  be  adjusted 
to  an  arbitrary  initial  state.  Nothing  prevents  us  now  from  making  the  time  appear 
also  in  the  function  V  —  this  is  the  theory  of  non-conservative  systems,  one  of 
whose  most  important  applications  is  the  theory  of  dispersion.  —  The  important 
relation  J9j,  which  follows  from  eq.  J7j,  allows  one  in  all  cases  to  normalise  tp 
according  to  eq.  lllOII. 
a  See  the  report  by  Messrs  Born  and  Heisenberg.11 


(12) 


454 


E.  Schrddinger 


oscillating  with  a  single  eigenoscillation  are  they  distributed  permanent- 
ly, so  to  speak  statically. 

It  must  now  be  emphasised  that  by  the  claim  that  there  are15  these 
charge  densities  (and  the  current  densities  arising  from  their  fluctuation) , 
we  can  mean  at  best  half  of  what  classical  electrodynamics  would  mean 
by  that.  Classically,  charge  and  current  densities  are  (1)  application 
points,  (2)  source  points  of  the  electromagnetic  field.  As  application 
points  they  are  completely  out  of  the  question  here;  the  assumption 
that  these  charges  and  currents  act,  say,  according  to  Coulomb's  or 
Biot-Savart's  law  directly  on  one  another,  or  are  directly  affected  in 
such  a  way  by  external  fields,  this  assumption  is  either  superfluous  or 
wrong  (N.B.  de  facto  wrong),  because  the  changes  in  the  tp  function 
and  thereby  in  the  charges  are  indeed  to  be  determined  through  the 
oscillation  equation  |(7|)  —  thus  we  must  not  think  of  them  as  determined 
also  in  another  way,  by  forces  acting  on  them.  An  external  electric  field 
is  to  be  taken  account  of  in  (0  in  the  potential  function  V,  an  external 
magnetic  field  in  a  similar  way  to  be  discussed  below,  —  this  is  the  way 
their  application  to  the  charge  distribution  is  expressed  in  the  present 
theory. 

Instead,  our  spatially  distributed  charges  prove  themselves  excellently 
as  source  points  of  the  field,  at  least  for  the  external  action  of  the 
system,  in  particular  with  respect  to  its  radiation.  Considered  as  source 
points  in  the  sense  of  the  usual  electrodynamics,  they  yield  largely16 


correct  information  about  its  frequency,  intensity  and  polarisationO  In 
most  cases,  the  charge  is  in  practice  confined  to  a  region  that  is  small 
compared  to  the  wavelengths  of  the  emitted  light.  The  radiation  is  then 
determined  by  the  resulting  dipole  moment  [elektrisches  Moment]  of  the 
charge  distribution.  According  to  the  principles  determined  above,  this  is 
calculated  from  the  classical  dipole  moment  of  an  arbitrary  configuration 
by  performing  an  average  using  ipip* 


A  glance  at  (JSj)  shows  that  in  Mqu  the  differences  of  the  i/k  will  appear  as 
emission  frequencies;  since  the  vu  are  the  spectroscopic  term  values,  our 
picture  provides  an  understanding17  of  Bohr's  frequency  condition.  The 
integrals  that  appear  as  amplitudes  of  the  different  partial  oscillations 
of  the  dipole  moment  represent  according  to  the  remarks  on  ([5])  the 
elements  of  Born  and  Heisenberg's  'dipole  moment  matrix'.  By  evalua- 

a  See  the  discussion  after  the  report,  as  well  as  section  14741  (eds. ). 


(13) 


Wave  mechanics 


455 


ting  these  integrals  one  obtained  the  correct  polarisations  and  intensities 
of  the  emitted  light  in  many  special  cases,  in  particular  intensity  zero 
in  all  cases  where  a  line  allowed  by  the  frequency  condition  is  missing 
according  to  experience  (understanding18  of  the  selection  principle).  — 
Even  though  all  these  results,  if  one  so  wishes,  can  be  detached  from  the 
picture  of  the  fluctuating  charges  and  be  represented  in  a  more  abstract 
form,  yet  they  put  quite  beyond  doubt  that  the  picture  is  tremendously 
useful  for  one  who  has  the  need  for  Anschaulichkeit!19Q 

In  no  way  should  one  claim  that  the  provisional  attempt  of  a  classical- 
electrodynamic  coupling  of  the  field  to  the  charges  generating  the  field 
is  already  the  last  word  on  this  issue.  There  are  internal20  reasons  for 
doubting  this.  First,  there  is  a  serious  difficulty  in  the  question  of  the 
reaction  of  the  emitted  radiation  on  the  emitting  system,  which  is  not  yet 
expressed  by  the  wave  equation  ([7]),  according  to  which  also  such  wave 
forms  of  the  system  that  continuously  emit  radiation  could  and  would  in 
fact  always  persist  unabated.  Further,  one  should  consider  the  following. 
We  always  observe  the  radiation  emitted  by  an  atom  only  through  its 
action  on  another  atom  or  molecule.  Now,  from  the  wave  mechanical 
standpoint  we  can  consider  two  charged  point  masses  that  belong  to  the 
same  atom,  neither  as  acting  directly  on  each  other  in  their  pointlike 
form  (standpoint  of  classical  mechanics) ,  nor  are  we  allowed  to  think  this 
of  their  'smeared  out'  wave  mechanical  charge  distributions  (the  wrong 
move  taunted  above).  Rather,  we  have  to  take  account  of  their  classical 
potential  energy,  considered  as  a  function  in  g-space,  in  the  coefficient  V 
of  the  wave  equation  But  then,  when  we  have  two  different  atoms, 
it  will  surely  not  be  correct  in  principle  to  insert  the  fields  generated  by 
the  spread- out  charges  of  the  first  at  the  position  of  the  second  in  the 

a  Summary  of  the  above:  The  physical  meaning  of  the  function  if)  appears  to  be  that 
the  system  of  charged  point  particles  imagined  by  classical  mechanics  does  not 
in  fact  exist,  but  that  there  is  a  continuous  distribution  of  electric  charge,  whose 
density  can  be  calculated  at  each  point  of  ordinary  space  using  tp  or  rather  ip^* , 
the  square  of  the  absolute  value  of  ip.  According  to  this  idea,  the  quantum  (or:  real) 
system  is  a  superposition  of  all  the  possible  configurations  of  the  classical  system, 
the  real  function  ipip*  in  q-space  occurring  as  'weighting  function'.  Since  ipip*  in 
general  contains  time,  fluctuations  of  charge  must  occur.  What  we  mean  by  the 
existence  of  these  continuous  and  fluctuating  charges  is  not  at  all  that  they  should 
act  on  each  other  according  to  Coulomb's  or  Biot-Savart's  law  —  the  motion  of 
these  charges  is  already  completely  governed  by  eq.  J7J.  But  what  we  mean  is 
that  they  are  the  sources  of  the  electric  fields  and  magnetic  fields  proceeding  from 
the  atom,  above  all  the  sources  of  the  observed  radiation.  In  many  a  case  one 
has  obtained  wonderful  agreement  with  experiment  by  calculating  the  radiation 
of  these  fluctuating  charges  using  classical  electrodynamics.  In  particular,  they 
yield  a  complete  and  general  explanation  of  Bohr's  'frequency  condition'  and  of 
the  spectral  'polarisation  and  selection  rules'. 


456 


E.  Schrddinger 


wave  equation  for  the  latter.  And  yet  we  do  this  when  we  calculate  the 
radiation  of  an  atom  in  the  way  described  above  and  now  treat  wave 
mechanically  the  behaviour  of  another  atom  in  this  radiation  field.  I  say 
this  way  of  calculating  the  interaction  between  the  charges  of  different 
atoms  can  be  at  most  approximate,  but  not  correct  in  principle.  For 
within  one  system  it  is  certainly  wrong.  But  if  we  bring  the  two  atoms 
closer  together,  then  the  distinction  between  the  charges  of  one  and 
those  of  the  other  gradually  disappears,  it  is  actually  never  a  distinction 
of  principle.21  —  The  coherent  wave  mechanical  route  would  surely  be 
to  combine  both  the  emitting  and  the  receiving  system  into  a  single  one 
and  to  describe  them  through  a  single  wave  equation  with  appropriate 
coupling  terms,  however  large  the  distance  between  emitter  and  receiver 
may  be.  Then  one  could  be  completely  silent  about  the  processes  in 
the  radiation  field.  But  what  would  be  the  correct  coupling  terms?  Of 
course  not  the  usual  Coulomb  potentials,  as  soon  as  the  distance  is  equal 
to  several  wavelengths!22  (One  realises  from  here  that  without  important 
amendments  the  entire  theory  in  reality  can  only  be  applied  to  very  small 
systems.)  Perhaps  one  should  use  the  retarded  potentials.  But  these  are 
not  functions  in  the  (common)  g-space,  instead  they  are  something  much 
more  complicated.  Evidently  we  encounter  here  the  provisional  limits  of 
the  theory  and  must  be  happy  to  possess  in  the  procedure  depicted  above 
an  approximate  treatment  that  appears  to  be  very  usefulQ 


II.  —  Four-dimensional  theory 

If  one  applies  the  mult i-dimensional  version  of  wave  mechanics  to  a  single 
electron  of  mass  m  and  charge  e  moving  in  a  space  with  the  electrostatic 
potential  (p  and  to  be  described  by  the  three  rectangular  coordinates 

a  Summary  of  the  above:  However,  there  are  reasons  to  believe  that  our  fluctuating 
and  purely  classically  radiating  charges  do  not  provide  the  last  word  on  this 
question.  Since  we  observe  the  radiation  of  an  atom  only  by  its  effect  on  another 
atom  or  molecule  (which  we  shall  thus  also  treat  quite  naturally  by  the  methods  of 
wave  mechanics),  our  procedure  reduces  to  substituting  into  the  wave  equation  of 
one  system  the  potentials  that  would  be  produced  according  to  the  classical  laws 
by  the  extended  charges  of  another  system.  This  way  of  accounting  for  the  mutual 
action  of  the  charges  belonging  to  two  different  systems  cannot  be  absolutely 
correct,  since  for  the  charges  belonging  to  the  same  system  it  is  not.  The  correct 
method  of  calculating  the  influence  of  a  radiating  atom  on  another  atom  would 
be  perhaps  to  treat  them  as  one  total  system  according  to  the  methods  of  wave 
mechanics.  But  that  does  not  seem  at  all  possible,  since  the  retarded  potentials, 
which  should  no  doubt  occur,  are  not  simply  functions  of  the  configuration  of  the 
systems,  but  something  much  more  complicated.  Evidently,  at  present  these  are 
the  limits  of  the  method! 


Wave  mechanics 


457 


x,  y,z,  then  the  wave  equation  ([7])  becomes 

1  /<92V>  |  d2ip  |  d2ip\     8tt2c  47Ti^_Q 
to  \  dx2      <9y2      <9z2  J      h2  h  dt 

(N.B.  The  factor  derives  from  the  fact  that,  given  the  way  of  determi- 
ning the  metric  of  the  g-space  through  the  kinetic  energy,  Xy/m,  yy/m, 
Zy/m  should  be  used  as  coordinates  rather  than  x,y,  z.23)  It  now  turns 
out  that  the  present  equation  is  nothing  else  but  the  ordinary  three- 
dimensional  wave  equation  for  de  Broglie's  'phase  waves'  of  the  electron, 
except  that  the  equation  in  the  above  form  is  shortened  or  truncated  in 
a  way  that  one  can  call  'neglecting  the  influence  of  relativity'. 

In  fact,  in  the  electrostatic  field  de  Broglie  gives  the  following  ex- 
pressiorB  for  the  wave  velocity  u  of  his  phase  waves,  depending  on  the 
potential  <p  (i.e.  on  position)  and  on  the  frequency  v2i 

hv 


\j{hv-eip)2  -  h2v2         \V°       h  )  ^ 

If  one  inserts  this  into  the  ordinary  three-dimensional  wave  equation 

d2ip     d2i>     d2ijj      1  d2ip  _  (| 
dx2      dy2      dz2      u2  dt2 

and  uses  (J6j)  to  eliminate  the  frequency  v  from  the  equation,  one  has25 

=  ~£h?  +  dy1  +  OS7) 

1  82iJj     4ine<pd^     4tt2  /eV       2\,  n 
A^-^  +  -h^m+—{^-^)^  =  °-  (16) 

Now  if  one  considers  that  in  the  case  of  'slow  electron  motion'  (a)  the 
occurring  frequencies  are  always  very  nearly  equal  to  the  rest  frequency 
vq,  so  that  in  order  of  magnitude  the  derivative  with  respect  to  time  in 
lfl6|)  is  equal  to  a  multiplication  by  2niv0,  and  that  (b)  ^  in  this  case26 
is  always  small  with  respect  to  vq  ;  and  if  one  then  sets  in  equation  flB)! 

i,  =  e27TWot^  ,  (17) 


and  disregarding  squares  of  small  quantities,  one  obtains  for  exactly 
equation  (fl4|)  derived  from  the  multi-dimensional  version  of  wave  mecha- 
nics. As  claimed,  this  is  thus  indeed  the  'classical  approximation'  of  the 
wave  equation  holding  for  de  Broglie's  phase  waves[jThe  transformation 
lfl~7|)  here  shows  us  that,  considered  from  de  Broglie's  point  of  view,  the 


a  Cf.  the  formula  for  the  refractive  index  on  p.l375lof  de  Broglie's  report  (eds.). 
b  That  is,  the  nonrelativistic  approximation  (eds.). 


458 


E.  Schrddinger 


multi-dimensional  theory  is  committed  to  a  so  to  speak  truncated  view 
of  the  frequency,  in  that  it  subtracts  once  and  for  all  from  all  frequencies 
the  rest  frequency  vq  (N.B.  In  calculating  the  charge  density  from  ifnp* ,27 
the  additional  factor  is  of  course  irrelevant  since  it  has  modulus28  l.29  jf] 
Let  us  now  keep  to  the  form  lfl6|)  of  the  wave  equation.  It  still  requires 
an  important  generalisation.  In  order  to  be  truly  relativistic  it  must 
be  invariant  with  respect  to  Lorentz  transformations.  But  if  we  perform 
such  a  transformation  on  our  electric  field,  hitherto  assumed  to  be  static, 
then  it  loses  this  feature  and  a  magnetic  field  appears  by  itself  next  to 
it.  In  this  way  one  derives  almost  unavoidably  the  form  of  the  wave 
equation  in  an  arbitrary  electromagnetic  field.  The  result  can  be  put  in 
the  following  transparent  form,  which  makes  the  complete  equivalence 
[Gleichberechtigung]  of  time  and  the  three  spatial  coordinates  fully  ex- 
plicit : 


d  2irie 
dx       he  3 

d      2nie    \ 2     fid      2nie .  \  2  47t2i/q 


dz       he    z  J       I  ic  dt  he 


d 

2irie 

dy 

he 

►( 

1  d 

ic  dt 

(18) 

tp  =  0  . 


(N.B.  a  is  the  vector  potential.30  In  evaluating  the  squares  one  has 
to  take  account  of  the  order  of  the  factors,  since  one  is  dealing  with 
operators,  and  further  of  Maxwell's  relation: 


dax     day     daz      1  d(i(p) 


0  .)  (19) 


dx       dy       dz      ic  dt 

This  wave  equation  is  of  very  manifold  interest.  First,  as  shown  by 
Gordonjf]  it  can  be  derived  in  a  way  very  similar  to  what  we  have 
seen  above  for  the  amplitude  equation  of  conservative  systems,  from  a 
variational  principle,  which  now  obtains  in  four  dimensions,  and  where 
time  plays  a  perfectly  symmetrical  role  with  respect  to  the  three  spatial 
coordinates.  Further:  if  one  adds  to  the  Lagrange  function  of  Gordon's 
variational  principle  the  well-known  Lagrange  function  of  the  Maxwell 

a  Summary  of  the  above:  The  three-dimensional  wave  equation,  eq.  1141.  obtained 
by  applying  the  multi-dimensional  theory  to  a  single  electron  in  an  electrostatic 
potential  field  ip,  is  none  other  than  the  nonrelativistic  approximation  of  the 
wave  equation  that  results  from  Mr  L.  [d]e  Broglie's  ideas  for  his  'phase  waves'. 
The  latter,  eq.  I|16|l.  is  obtained  by  substituting  into  the  ordinary  wave  equation 
expression  (JT5J ,  which  Mr  [d]e  Broglie  has  derived  for  the  phase  velocity  u  as  a 
function  of  the  frequency  v  and  of  the  potential  ip  (that  is,  of  the  coordinates 
x,  y,z,  on  which  <p  will  depend)  and  by  eliminating  from  the  resulting  formula  the 
frequency  v  by  means  of  J6j. 

a  W.  Gordon,  Zeitschr.  f.  Phys.,  40  (1926),  117. 


Wave  mechanics 


459 


field  in  vacuo  (that  is,  the  half-difference  of  the  squares  of  the  magnetic 
and  the  electric  field  strenghts)  and  varies  in  the  spacetime  integral  of  the 
new  Lagrange  function  thus  obtained  not  only  ip,  but  also  the  potential 
components  (p,ax,av,az,  one  obtains  as  the  five  Euler  equations  along 
with  the  wave  equation  l[T8|)  also  the  four  retarded  potential  equations 
for  ip,  ax ,  ay ,  az  o  (One  could  also  say:  Maxwell's  second  quadruple  of 
equations,  while  the  first,  as  is  well-known,  holds  identically  in  the 
potentials.32)  It  contains  as  charge  and  current  density  quadratic  forms 
in  ijj  and  its  first  derivatives33  that  agree  completely  with  the  rule  which 
we  had  given  in  the  mufti-dimensional  theory  for  calculating  the  true 
charge  distribution  from  the  V'-function.  Second,  one  can  further  defin^H 
a  stress- energy-momentum  tensor  of  the  charges,  whose  ten  components 
are  also  quadratic  forms  oftp  and  its  first  derivatives,  and  which  together 
with  the  well-known  Maxwell  tensor  obeys  the  laws  of  conservation  of 
energy  and  of  momentum  (that  is,  the  sum  of  the  two  tensors  has  a 
vanishing  divergence)  0 

But  I  shall  not  bother  you  here  with  the  rather  complex  mathema- 
tical development  of  these  issues,  since  the  view  still  contains  a  serious 
inconsistency.  Indeed,  according  to  it,  it  would  be  the  same  potential 
components  ip,  ax,ay,  az  which  on  the  one  hand  act  to  modify  the  wave 
equation  (flB))  (one  could  say:  they  act  on  the  charges  as  movers35) 
and  which  on  the  other  hand  are  determined  in  turn,  via  the  retarded 
potential  equations,  by  these  same  charges,  which  occur  as  sources  in 
the  latter  equations.  (That  is:  the  wave  equation  l|18p  determines  the  ip 
function,  from  the  latter  one  derives  the  charge  and  current  densities, 
which  as  sources  determine  the  potential  components.)  —  In  reality, 
however,  one  operates  otherwise  in  the  application  of  the  wave  equation 
(fl~8|)  to  the  hydrogen  electron,  and  one  must  operate  otherwise  to  obtain 
the  correct  result:  one  substitutes  in  the  wave  equation  lfT8|)  the  already 

a  E.  Schrodinger,  Ann.  d.  Phys.,  82  (1927),  [265].31 
b  E.  Schrodinger,  loc.  cit.34 

c  Summary  of  the  above:  In  order  to  generalise  equation  l|16|l  so  that  it  may  apply 
to  an  arbitrary  electromagnetic  field,  one  subjects  it  to  a  Lorentz  transformation, 
which  automatically  makes  a  magnetic  field  appear.  One  arrives  at  eq.  I|18|l.  in 
which  time  enters  in  a  perfectly  symmetrical  way  with  the  spatial  coordinates. 
Gordon  has  shown  that  this  equation  derives  from  a  four-dimensional  variational 
principle.  By  adding  to  Gordon's  Lagrangian  the  well-known  Lagrangian  of  the 
free  field  and  by  varying  along  with  ip  also  the  four  components  of  the  potential, 
one  derives  from  a  single  variational  principle  besides  eq.  (1 1 8 1>  also  the  laws  of 
electromagnetism  with  certain  homogeneous  quadratic  functions  of  ip  and  its  first 
derivatives  as  charge  and  current  densities.  These  agree  well  with  what  was  said 
in  the  previous  chapter  regarding  the  calculation  of  the  fluctuating  charges  using 
the  ip  function.  —  One  finds  a  definition  of  the  stress-energy-momentum  tensor, 
which,  added  to  Maxwell's  tensor,  satisfies  the  conservation  laws. 


460 


E.  Schrddinger 


given  potentials  of  the  nucleus  and  of  possible  external  fields  (Stark  and 
Zeeman  effect).  From  the  solution  for  ip  thus  obtained  one  derives  the 
fluctuating  charge  densities  discussed  above,  which  one  in  fact36  has  to 
use  for  the  determination  from  sources  of  the  emitted  radiation;  but  one 
must  not  add  a  posteriori  to  the  field  of  the  nucleus  and  the  possible 
external  fields  also  the  fields  produced  by  these  charges  at  the  position 
of  the  atom  itself  in  equation  lfl8|)  — 37  something  totally  wrong  would 
result. 

Clearly  this  is  a  painful  lacuna.  The  pure  field  theory  is  not  enough, 
it  has  to  be  supplemented  by  performing  a  kind  of  individualisation 
of  the  charge  densities  coming  from  the  single  point  charges  of  the 
classical  model,  where  however  each  single  'individual'  may  be  spread 
over  the  whole  of  space,  so  that  they  overlap.  In  the  wave  equation 
for  the  single  individual  one  would  have  to  take  into  account  only  the 
fields  produced  by  the  other  individuals  but  not  its  self-field.  These 
remarks,  however,  are  only  meant  to  characterise  the  general  nature 
of  the  required  supplement,  not  to  constitute  a  programme  to  be  taken 
completely  literallyO 

We  wish  to  present  also  the  remarkable  special  result  yielded  by  the 
relativistic  form  lfl8|)  of  the  wave  equation  for  the  hydrogen  atom.  One 
would  at  first  expect  and  hope  to  find  the  well-known  Sommerfeld  for- 
mula for  the  fine  structure  of  terms.  Indeed  one  does  obtain  a  fine 
structure  and  one  does  obtain  Sommerfeld's  formula,  however  the  result 
contradicts  experience,  because  it  is  exactly  what  one  would  find  in 
the  Bohr-Sommerfeld  theory,  if  one  were  to  posit  the  radial  as  well  as 
the  azimuthal  quantum  number  as  half-integers  [halbzahlig],  that  is, 
half  of  an  odd  integer.  —  Today  this  result  is  not  as  disquieting  as 
when  it  was  first  encountered^  In  fact,  it  is  well-known  that  the  ex- 
tension of  Bohr's  theory  through  the  Uhlenbeck-Goudsmit  electron  spin 
[Elektronendrall] ,  required  by  many  other  facts  of  experience,  has  to  be 
supplemented  in  turn  by  the  move  to  secondary  quantum  'half-numbers 
['halbe'  Nebenquantenzahlen]  in  order  to  obtain  good  results.  How  the 

a  Summary  of  the  above:  However,  these  last  developments  run  into  a  great  difficulty. 
From  their  direct  application  would  follow  the  logical  necessity  of  taking  into 
account  in  the  wave  equation,  for  instance  in  the  case  of  the  hydrogen  atom, 
not  only  the  potential  arising  from  the  nucleus,  but  also  the  potentials  arising 
from  the  fluctuating  charges;  which,  apart  from  the  enormous  mathematical 
complications  that  would  arise,  would  give  completely  wrong  results.  The  field 
theory  ('Feldtheorie')  appears  thus  inadequate;  it  should  be  supplemented  by  a 
kind  of  individualisation  of  the  electrons,  despite  these  being  extended  over  the 
whole  of  space. 

b  E.  Schrodinger,  Ann.  d.  Phys.,  79  (1926),  [361],  p.  372. 


Wave  mechanics 


461 


spin  is  represented  in  wave  mechanics  is  still  uncertain.  Very  promising 
suggestion^  point  in  the  direction  that  instead  of  the  scalar  ip  a  vector 
should  be  introduced.  We  cannot  discuss  here  this  latest  turn  in  the 
theory^ 


III.  —  The  many-electron  problem 

The  attempt^  to  derive  numerical  results  by  means  of  approximation 
methods  for  the  atom  with  several  electrons,  whose  amplitude  equa- 
tion (@])  or  wave  equation  J7])  cannot  be  solved  directly,  have  led  to 
the  remarkable  result  that  actually,  despite  the  multi-dimensionality  of 
the  original  equation,  in  this  procedure  one  always  needs  to  calculate 
only  with  the  well-known  three-dimensional  eigenfunctions  of  hydrogen; 
indeed  one  has  to  calculate  certain  iftree-dimensional  charge  distributions 
that  result  from  the  hydrogen  eigenfunctions  according  to  the  principles 
presented  above,  and  one  has  to  calculate  according  the  principles  of 
classical  electrostatics  the  self-potentials  and  interaction  potentials  of 
these  charge  distributions;  these  constants  then  enter  as  coefficients  in 
a  system  of  equations  that  in  a  simple  way  determines  in  principle  the 
behaviour  of  the  many-electron  atom.  Herein,  I  think,  lies  a  hint  that 
with  the  furthering  of  our  understanding  'in  the  end  everything  will 
indeed  become  intelligible  in  three  dimensions  again'.38  For  this  reason 
I  want  to  elaborate  a  little  on  what  has  just  been  said. 
Let 

ipk(x,y,z)    and    Ek  ;  (£=1,2,3,...) 

be  the  normalised  eigenfunctions  (for  simplicity  assumed  as  real)  and 
corresponding  eigenvalues  of  the  one-electron  atom  with  Z-fold  positive 
nucleus,  which  for  brevity  we  shall  call  the  hydrogen  problem.  They  sa- 

a  C.  G.  Darwin,  Nature,  119  (1927),  282,  Proc.  Roy.  Soc.  A,  116  (1927),  227. 

b  Summary  of  the  above:  For  the  hydrogen  atom  the  relativistic  equation  (1181)  yields 
a  result  that,  although  disagreeing  with  experience,  is  rather  remarkable,  that 
is:  one  obtains  the  same  fine  structure  as  the  one  that  would  result  from  the 
Bohr-Sommerfeld  theory  by  assuming  the  radial  and  azimuthal  quantum  numbers 
to  be  'integral  and  a  half,  that  is,  half  an  odd  integer.  The  theory  has  evidently 
to  be  completed  by  taking  into  account  what  in  Bohr's  theory  is  called  the  spin 
of  the  electron.  In  wave  mechanics  this  is  perhaps  expressed  (C.  G.  Darwin)  by  a 
polarisation  of  the  tp  waves,  this  quantity  having  to  be  modified  from  a  scalar  to 
a  vector. 

a  See  in  particular  A.  Unsold,  Ann.  d.  Phys.,  82  (1927),  355. 


462  E.  Schrddinger 

tisfy  the  three-dimensional  amplitude  equation  (compare  equation  |[4|): 


1  /fffy  |  d2ip  |  d2i/j\  |  8tt2  /£  |  ze2\v  (| 
m  \  9a;2      dy2      dz2  J      h2  \  r 


(r  =  \J  x2  +  y2  +  z2) 


(20) 


If  only  one  eigenoscillation  is  present,  one  has  the  static  charge  distribu- 
tion39 

Pkk  =  -eifi  .  (21) 

If  one  imagines  two  being  excited  with  maximal  strength,  one  adds  to 
Pkk  +  Pn  a  charge  distribution  oscillating  with  frequency  \Eu  —  Ei\/h, 
whose  amplitude  distribution  is  given  by 

2Plk  =  -2etl)ktpi  .  (22) 

The  spatial  integral  of  pu  vanishes  when  k  ^  I  (because  of  the  orthogo- 
nality of  the  V'fc)  and  it  is  —  e  for  k  =  I.  The  charge  distribution  resulting 
from  the  presence  of  two  eigenoscillations  together  has  thus  at  every 
instant  the  sum  zero.  —  One  can  now  form  the  electrostatic  potential 
energies 

,,,,,       /'.../'  dxdydzdx'dy'dz'P^Z^X'^^'\  (23) 

where  r'  =  y/(x  —  x')2  +  (y  —  y')2  +  (z  —  z')2  and  the  indices  k,l,k',l' 
may  exhibit  arbitrary  degeneracies  (to  be  sure,  in  the  case  k  —  k',l  =  I' , 
p  is  twice  the  potential  self-energy  of  the  charge  distribution  pa;  but 
that  is  of  no  importance).  It  is  the  constants  p  that  control  also  the 
many- electron  atom. 

Let  us  sketch  this.  Let  the  classical  model  now  consist  of  n  electrons 
and  a  Z-fold  positively  charged  nucleus  at  the  origin.  We  shall  use  the 
wave  equation  in  the  form  J7]).  It  becomes  3n-dimensional,40  say  thus 

1  8-7T2  Am  dib 

-(Ax  +  A2  +  .  .  .  +  Anty  -  -j^-(Vn  +  V^J-—^  =  °-  (24) 

Here 

d2     d2  d2 

dx2      dy2  dzt 


—  +  7^  +  7^2;    <7  =  l,2,3,...,ra  .  (25) 


We  have  considered  the  potential  energy  function  as  decomposed  in  two 
parts,  Vn  +  Ve;  Vn  should  correspond  to  the  interaction  of  all  n  electrons 


Wave  mechanics  463 
with  the  nucleus,  Ve  to  their  interaction  with  one  another,  therefor^ 

n 

Vn  =  -Ze2J2->  (26) 

(7  —  1 

V^+e2^'^  (27) 


7V  =  V^ff  +  Vl  +  rffT  =  \J  {Xa  -  XT)2  +  (ya  ~  Vt)2  +  (z„  -  ZT)' 

As  the  starting  point  for  an  approximation  procedure  we  choose  now  the 
eigensolutions  of  equation  (|24|  with  Ve  =  0,  that  is  with  the  interaction 
between  the  electrons  disregarded.  The  eigenfunctions  are  then  products 
of  hydrogen  eigenfunctions,  and  the  eigenvalues  are  sums  of  the  corre- 
sponding eigenvalues  of  hydrogen.  As  a  matter  of  fact,  one  easily  shows 
that41 

ipki...kn  =  ^^{xiyi  zx) . .  .Tpkn{xnyn  zn)e^iEk^+---+Ek^  (28) 

always  satisfies  equation  lj24j)  (with  Ve  =  0) .  And  if  one  takes  all  possible 
sequences  of  numbers  [Zahlenkombinationen]  for  the  fci,  &2,  •  •  • ,  kn,  then 
these  products  of  ipk  form  a  complete  orthogonal  system  in  the  3n- 
dimensional  g-space  —  one  has  thus  integrated  the  approximate  equation 
completely. 

One  now  aims  to  solve  the  full42  equation  (|24"ll  (with  Ve  ^  0)  by 
expansion  with  respect  to  this  complete  orthogonal  system,  that  is  one 
makes  this  ansatz: 

oo  oo 

i>  =    •■•    afci...fc„v>fei...fc„  ■  (29) 

k1=l  fc„=l 

But  of  course  the  coefficients  a  cannot  be  constants,  otherwise  the  above 
sum  would  again  be  only  a  solution  of  the  truncated  equation  with  Ve  = 
0.  It  turns  out,  however,  that  it  is  enough  to  consider  the  a  as  functions 
of  time  alone  ('method  of  the  variation  of  constants')  @  Substituting  lj29"ll 
into  lf24"ll  one  finds  that  the  following  conditions  on  the  time  dependence 


a  Analogously  to  eq.  I|12|l.  the  prime  on  the  summation  sign  should  be  interpreted 

as  meaning  that  the  sum  is  to  be  taken  over  all  pairs  with  u/t  (eds.). 
a  P.  A.  M.  Dirac,  Proc.  Roy.  Soc.  A,  112  (1926),  [661]  p.  674. 


464 


E.  Schrddinger 


of  the  a  must  hold.3, 

oo 

«fci...ikn>ii...i»oii...J„ea*t(B,l-,"~-B*1-**) 

i„=i 

=  1,2, 3...].  (30) 

Here  we  have  set  for  brevity 

Ekl  +  . . .  +  Ekn  =  Ekl^kn  .  (31) 

The  v  are  constants,  indeed  they  are  prima  facie  3n-tuple  integrals 
ranging  over  the  whole  of  g-space  (Additional  explanation:45  Where  do 
these  3n-tuple  integrals  come  from?  They  derive  from  the  fact  that 
after  substituting  lj29j)  into  lf24j)  one  replaces  the  latter  equation  by 
the  mathematically  equivalent  condition  that  its  left-hand  side  shall  be 
orthogonal  to  all  functions  of  the  complete  orthogonal  system  in  i?3„. 
The  system  (|30|)  expresses  this  condition.)  Writing  this  out  one  has 

Vki...kn,h...l„  = 

/>3n-fold  /> 

/     . . .  /  dxi  . . .  dznVeipkl{xi,yi,zi) . .  .ipkn{xn,yn,  zn)  (32) 

If  one  now  considers  the  simple  structure  of  Ve  given  in  (|27|) ,  one  recog- 
nises that  the  v  can  be  reduced  to  sextuple  integrals,  in  fact  each  of  them 
is  a  finite  sum  of  some  of  the  Coulomb  potential  energies  denned  in  (J23j) . 
Indeed,  if  in  the  finite  sum  representing  Ve,  we  focus  on  an  individual 
term,  for  example  e2/rCTr,  this  contains  only  the  six  variables  xa, . . .  ,zT. 
One  can  thus  immediately  perform  in  lj32j)  precisely  3n  —  6  integrations 
on  this  term,  yielding  (because  of  the  orthogonality  and  normalisation 
of  the  tpk)  the  factor  1,  if  kp  =  lp  for  all  indices  p  that  coincide  neither 
with  a  nor  with  r,  and  yielding  instead  the  factor  0  if  even  just  for  a 
single  p  different  from  a  and  r  one  has:  kp  ^  lp.  (One  sees  thus  that 
very  many  terms  disappear.)  For  the  non- vanishing  terms,  it  is  easy  to 
see  that  they  coincide  with  one  of  the  p  defined  in  (US]).  QEE0 

a  Summary  of  the  above:  Calling  i/>fc  and  Ek  the  eigenfunctions  and  eigenvalues 
of  the  problem  for  one  electron,  charge  — e,  in  the  field  of  a  nucleus  +Ze 
(hydrogen  problem),  let  us  form  the  charge  distributions  (1211)  and  (I22t.  the 
former  corresponding  to  the  existence  of  a  single  normal  mode,  the  latter  to  the 
cooperation  of  two  of  them.  Taken  as  charge  densities  in  ordinary  electrostatics, 
each  of  these  would  have  a  certain  potential  energy  and  there  would  even  be  a 
certain  mutual  potential  energy  between  two  of  them,  assumed  to  coexist.  These 
are  the  constants  Pki-k'l'  m  H3t-  —  With  these  givens,  let  us  attack  the  problem 
of  the  n-electron  atom.  Dividing  the  potential  energy  in  the  wave  equation  (1241) 


da 


ki...kn 


dt 


2-ki 


E 


Wave  mechanics 


465 


Let  us  now  have  a  somewhat  closer  look  at  the  equation  system 
(|30|).  whose  coefficients,  as  we  have  just  seen,  have  such  a  relatively 
simple  structure,  and  which  determines  the  varying  amplitudes  of  our 
ansatz46  f29|)  as  functions  of  time.  We  can  allow  ourselves  to  introduce 
a  somewhat  simpler  symbolic  notation,  by  letting  the  string  of  indi- 
ces fci,  fe, . .  • ,  kn  be  represented  by  the  single  index  k,  and  similarly 
h,h,  ■  ■  ■ ;  ln  by  I.  One  then  has 

^  =  TEW-^.  (33) 
i=i 

(One  must  not  confuse,  however,  Ei,Ek  with  the  single47  eigenvalues  of 
the  hydrogen  problem,  which  were  earlier  denoted  in  the  same  way.48) 
This  is  now  a  system  of  infinitely  many  differential  equations,  which 
we  cannot  solve  directly:  so,  practically  nothing  seems  to  have  been 
gained.  In  turn,  however,  we  have  as  yet  also  neglected  nothing:  with 
exact  solutions  etfc  of  (|33|.  ((29j)  would  be  an  exact  solution  of  p4|. 
This  is  precisely  where  I  want  to  place  the  main  emphasis,  greater  than 
on  the  practical  implementation  of  the  approximation  procedure,  which 
shall  be  sketched  below  only  for  the  sake  of  completeness.  In  principle 
the  equations  l!33tl  determine  the  solution  of  the  many-electron  problem 
exactly;49  —  and  they  no  longer  contain  anything  multi-dimensional; 
their  coefficients  are  simple  Coulomb  energies  of  charge  distributions 
that  already  occur  in  the  hydrogen  problem.  Further,  the  equations 
1(33])  determine  the  solutions  of  the  many-electron  problem  according 
to  (|29|)  as  a  combination  of  products  of  the  hydrogen  eigenfunctions. 
While  these  products  (denoted  above  by  ^pk1k2...kn)b0  are  still  functions 
on  the  3n-dimensional  g-space,  any  two  of  them  yield  in  the  calculation 
of  the  three-dimensional  charge  distributions  in  the  many-electron  atom, 
as  is  easily  seen,  a  charge  distribution  which  if  it  is  not  identically  zero 
corresponds  again  to  a  hydrogen  distribution  (denoted  above  by  pkk  or 
Pkl)- 

These  considerations  are  the  analogue  of  the  construction  of  the  higher 
atoms  from  hydrogen  trajectories  in  Bohr's  theory.  They  reinforce  the 

for  this  problem  into  two  terms  and  neglecting  at  first  the  term  Ve,  due  to  the 
mutual  action  between  the  electrons,  the  eigensolutions  would  be  given  by  {28j, 
that  is,  by  the  products  of  n  hydrogen  functions.  Prom  these  products,  taken  in  all 
combinations,  form  the  series  (1291).  which  will  yield  the  exact  solution  of  equation 
l|24|l.  provided  that  the  coefficients  Ofc,  k-?....hn  are  functions  of  time  satisfying  the 
equations  (130l> :  (see  the  abbreviation  J3TJ).  The  coefficients  v  in  (1301)  are  constants, 
defined  originally  by  the  3n-tuple  integrals  l|32|l.  which  however,  thanks  to  the 
simple  form  of  Ve  (see  I|27|l1.  reduce  to  sextuple  integrals,  namely  precisely  to  the 
constants  Pk,i-.k'.i'  (see  1231). 


466 


E.  Schrddinger 


hope  that  by  delving  more  deeply  one  will  be  able  to  interpret  and  under- 
stand the  results  of  the  multi-dimensional  theory  in  three  dimensions  @ 

Now,  as  far  as  the  approximation  method  is  concerned,  it  consists 
in  fact  of  considering  the  contribution  Ve  made  to  the  potential  energy 
function  V  by  the  interaction  of  the  electrons  with  one  another,  to  be  as 
far  as  possible  small  as  compared  to  the  action  of  the  nucleus.  The  vu 
are  then  considered  small  compared  to  the  eigenvalue  differences  Ei  —  Ek, 
except  if  Ei  =  E^.  The  a;  will  then  vary  slowly  by  comparison  to  the 
powers  of  e  appearing  on  the  right-hand  side  of  equation  (|33|) ,  as  long  as 
the  latter  are  not  equal  to  1,  and  all  those  terms  on  the  right-hand  side  for 
which  this  is  not  the  case  will  yield  only  small  fluctuations  of  short  period 
of  the  dfc  and  can  be  neglected  in  the  approximation.51  Thereby,  first, 
the  sums  on  the  right  become  finite,  because  in  fact  always  only  a  finite 
number  of  eigenvalues  coincide.  Second,  the  infinitely  many  equations 
separate  into  groups;  each  group  contains  only  a  finite  number  of  a\  and 
can  be  integrated  very  easily.52  This  is  the  first  step  of  the  approximation 
procedure,  which  in  theory  can  be  continued  indefinitely,  but  becomes 
more  and  more  cumbersome.  We  shall  not  enter  into  details. 

One  can  also  transform  the  untruncated  system  of  differential  equa- 
tions ([33|  at  a  single  stroke  into  a  system  of  ordinary  linear  equations 
(with  infinitely  many  unknowns!)  by  setting 

ai  =  qe^(£-£l»  ,  (34) 

where  the  quantity  E  and  the  quantities  c\  are  unknown  constants. 
Substituting  into  ([33|)  one  finds 


This  equation  system  coincides  with  the  Heisenberg-Born  'principal  axes 
problem'.  If  the  vu  are  very  small  quantities,  then,  if  not  all  ci  are  to 
be  very  small,  E  must  be  close  to  one  of  the  £/,  let  us  say  to  Ek- 
In  the  first  approximation  then  only  c/,.,  and  all  those  c/  for  which 

a  Summary  of  the  above:  Although  the  system  of  eqs.  I|30|l  (abbreviated  to  13311) 
does  not  admit  a  direct  solution,  the  number  of  equations  as  well  as  the  number  of 
unknown  functions  being  infinite,  it  seems  to  me  very  interesting  that  the  solution 
to  the  multi-dimensional  problem  is  provided  in  principle  by  a  system  of  equations 
whose  coefficients  have  such  simple  meanings  in  three  dimensions.  Further,  one 
realises  that  the  charge  distribution  that  corresponds  to  the  solution  l|29|l  of  the 
n-electron  problem  turns  out  to  be  the  superposition  of  the  distributions  pkk 
and  Pki  that  occur  already  in  the  hydrogen  problem.  The  hope  of  interpreting 
and  of  understanding  the  multi-dimensional  theory  in  three  dimensions  is  thus 
strengthened. 


oo 


(35) 


Wave  mechanics 


467 


Ei  =  Ek,  are  different  from  zero.  The  problem  thus  separates  in  the  first 
approximation  into  a  denumerable  set  of  finite  principal  axes  problems^ 


a  Summary  of  the  above:  One  can  embark  on  the  solution  of  the  system  of  equations 
{33}  by  an  approximation  method.  Positing  J34j,  the  constants  E  and  c;  have  to 
satisfy  the  system  (1351)  of  ordinary  linear  homogeneous  equations,  whose  number  as 
well  as  that  of  the  unknown  constants,  however,  is  infinite.  It  is  only  by  assuming 
all  coefficients  Vki  to  be  small  that  one  can  conclude  that  E  has  to  be  very  close 
to  one  of  the  values  Ei,  for  instance  Ek,  and  that  [c;]  approximately  vanishes, 
unless  Ei  is  equal  to  E^.  Since  there  is  only  a  finite  number  of  E\  that  coincide 
with  Ek,  the  problem  reduces  in  the  first  approximation  to  a  problem  of  a  finite 
number  of  'principal  axes',  or  rather  to  an  infinity  of  such  finite  problems.  —  As  a 
matter  of  fact,  the  equations  l|35|l  coincide  with  the  problem  of  an  infinite  number 
of  principal  axes,  which  the  Heisenberg-Born  mechanics  reduces  to. 


468 


E.  Schrddinger 


Discussion  of  Mr  Schrodinger's  report 

Mr  Schrodinger.  —  It  would  seem  that  my  description  in  terms  of 
a  snapshot  was  not  very  fortunate,  since  it  has  been  misunderstood. 
Perhaps  the  following  explanation  is  clearer.  The  interpretation  of  Born 
is  well-known,  who  takes  ipi[)*dT  to  be  the  probability  for  the  system 
being  in  the  volume  element  dr  of  the  configuration  space.  Distribute 
a  very  large  number  N  of  systems  in  the  configuration  space,  taking 
the  above  probability  as  'frequency  function'.  Imagine  these  systems  as 
superposed  in  real  space,  dividing  however  by  N  the  charge  of  each  point 
mass  in  each  system.  In  this  way,  in  the  limiting  case  where  N  =  oo  one 
obtains  the  wave  mechanical  picture  of  the  system. 

Mr  Bohr.  —  You  have  said  that  from  the  charge  distribution  ipip*dT 
and  the  classical  laws  you  obtain  the  frequency  and  intensity  of  light, 
but  do  the  remarks  about  difficulties  you  made  later  indicate  that  what 
you  had  obtained  was  not  correct? 

Mr  Schrodinger.  —  The  difficulty  I  mentioned  is  the  following. 
If  one  expands  the  general  solution  as  a  series  with  respect  to  the 
eigenfunctions 

k 

and  if  one  calculates  the  intensity  of  the  radiation  resulting  from  ipk  and 
ipl  together,  one  finds  that  it  becomes  proportional  to  clef.  However, 
according  to  the  old  theory,  only  the  square  of  the  amplitude  correspon- 
ding to  the  'initial  level'  should  appear  here;  that  of  the  'final  level' 
should  be  replaced  by  1. 

Mr  Bohr.  —  Has  Dirac  not  found  the  solution  to  the  difficulty? 

Mr  Schrodinger.  —  Dirac's  results  are  certainly  very  interesting 
and  point  the  way  toward  a  solution,  if  they  do  not  contain  it  already. 
Only,  we  should  first  come  to  an  understanding  in  physical  terms  [nous 
devrions  d'abord  nous  entendre  en  langage  physique].  I  find  it  still  im- 
possible, for  the  time  being,  to  see  an  answer  to  a  physical  question  in 
the  assertion  that  certain  quantities  obey  a  noncommutative  algebra, 
especially  when  these  quantities  are  meant  to  represent  numbers  of 
atoms.  The  relation  between  the  continuous  spatial  densities,  described 
earlier,  and  the  observed  intensities  and  polarisations  of  the  spectral 


Discussion 


469 


rays  is  [too  naturaljf]  for  me  to  deny  all  meaning  to  these  densities  only 
because  some  difficulties  appear  that  are  not  yet  resolved. 

Mr  Born.  —  It  seems  to  me  that  interpreting  the  quantity  ipip*  as 
a  charge  density  leads  to  difficulties  in  the  case  of  quadrupole  moments. 
The  latter  in  fact  need  to  be  taken  into  account  in  order  to  obtain  the 
radiation,  not  only  for  theoretical  reasons,  but  also  for  experimental 
reasons. 

For  brevity  let  us  set 


and  let  us  consider,  for  example,  the  case  of  two  particles;  \&  becomes  a 
function  of  x\  and  X2,  where  for  brevity  x\  stands  for  all  the  coordinates 
of  the  first  particle;  x2  has  a  similar  meaning.  The  electric  density  is 
then,  according  to  Schrodinger, 


cannot,  as  far  as  I  can  tell,  be  expressed  using  the  function  p(x).  I 
would  like  to  know  how  one  can,  in  this  case,  reduce  the  radiation  of 
the  quadrupole  to  the  motion  of  a  charge  distribution  p(x)  in  the  usual 
three-dimensional  space. 

Mr  Schrodinger.  —  I  can  assure  you  that  the  calculation  of  the 
dipole  moments  is  perfecly  correct  and  rigorous  and  that  this  objection 
by  Mr  Born  is  unfounded.  Does  the  agreement  between  wave  mechanics 
and  matrix  mechanics  extend  to  the  possible  radiation  of  a  quadrupole? 
That  is  a  question  I  have  not  examined.  Besides,  we  do  not  possess  obser- 
vations on  this  point  that  could  allow  us  to  use  a  possible  disagreement 
between  the  two  approaches  to  decide  between  them. 

Mr  Fowler  asks  for  explanations  regarding  the  method  for  solving 
the  equations  in  the  case  of  the  many-electron  problem. 

Mr  De  Donder.  —  Equation  ([24|)  of  Mr  Schrodinger's  report  can  be 


e2^*  =  e2|Vf  =  # 


In  wave  mechanics  the  quadrupole  moment 


a  The  French  here  reads  'trop  peu  naturelle',  which  has  the  exact  opposite  meaning. 
The  context  would  seem,  however,  to  justify  the  amendment  (eds.). 


470 


E.  Schrddinger 


extended  to  the  case  in  which  the  n  charged  particles  are  different  and 
where  the  external  actions  as  well  as  the  interactions  can  be  described, 
in  spacetime,  by  a  gravitational  field  [champ  grav  ifique]@  The  quantum 
equation  thus  obtained  is  the  sum  of  the  quantum  equations  for  the 
n  particles  taken  separately,  each  of  the  equations  being  divided  by 
the  (rest)  mass  of  the  corresponding  particle.  Thus,  for  instance,  the 
quantum  equation  for  the  nucleus  will  not  enter  if  one  assumes,  as  a 
first  approximation,  that  the  mass  of  the  nucleus  is  infinitely  large  with 
respect  to  that  of  an  electron. 

When  there  is  interaction,  the  problem  is  much  more  complex.  One 
can,  as  Mr  Schrodinger  indicates,  consider  the  action  of  the  nucleus  as 
an  external  action  acting  on  the  electrons  of  the  cloud  [couronne] ,  and 
the  (electrostatic)  actions  between  the  electrons  in  this  cloud  as  a  per- 
turbation; but  that  is  only  a  first  approximation.  In  order  to  account  for 
relativistic  and  electromagnetic  effects  I  have  assumed  that  the  molecular 
systems  have  an  additive  character^  One  can  thus  recover,  as  a  special 
case,  the  above-mentioned  method  of  quantisation  by  Schrodinger. 

Mr  Born.  —  In  Gottingen  we  have  embarked  on  a  systematic  calcu- 
lation of  the  matrix  elements  that  appear  in  perturbation  theory,  with 
the  aim  of  collecting  them  in  tables  up  to  the  principal  quantum  number 
10.  Part  of  these  calculations,  which  are  very  extended,  has  already  been 
done.  My  coworker  Mr  Biemiiller  has  used  them  to  calculate  the  lower 
terms  of  the  helium  atom  according  to  the  usual  perturbation  method 
up  to  perturbations  of  the  second  order.  The  agreement  of  the  ground 
term  with  the  empirical  value,  despite  the  defects  of  the  procedure,  is 
hardly  worse  than  in  the  recently  published  paper  by  Kellner  [Zeitschr. 
f.  Phys.,  44  (1927),  91],  who  has  applied  a  more  precise  method  (Ritz's 
procedure). 

Mr  Lorentz.  —  Do  you  see  the  outcome  of  this  long  labour  as 
satisfactory? 

Mr  Born.  —  The  calculation  has  not  attained  yet  the  precision  of 
the  measurements.  The  calculations  we  have  done  applying  the  ordinary 

a  Th.  De  Donder,  L'equation  fondamentale  de  la  Chimie  quantique,  Comptes  Rendus 
Acad.  Sci.  Paris,  session  of  10  October  1927,  pp.  698-700.  See  esp.  eq.  (10). 

a  For  more  details,  one  can  consult  our  note:  'L'equation  de  quantification  des 
molecules  comprenant  n  particules  electrisees',  published  after  this  meeting,  in 
the  Bull.  Ac.  R.  Belg.,  CI.  des  Sciences,  session  of  5  November  1927. 


Discussion 


471 


perturbation  method  [methode  des  perturbations  ordinaires]  consist  of 
a  series  expansion  with  respect  to  the  inverse  of  the  nuclear  charge  Z, 
of  the  form 


The  three  terms  shown  have  been  calculated.  Nevertheless,  in  the  case 
of  helium  (Z  —  2)  the  precision  is  not  yet  as  good  as  in  the  calculations 
done  by  Kellner  using  Ritz's  approximation  method. 

Mr  Lorentz.  —  But  you  hope  however  to  improve  your  results. 

Mr  Born.  —  Yes,  only  the  convergence  of  the  series  is  very  slow. 

Mr  Heisenberg.  —  On  the  subject  of  this  approximation  method, 
Mr  Schrodinger  says  at  the  end  of  his  report  that  the  discussion  he 
has  given  reinforces  the  hope  that  when  our  knowledge  will  be  deeper 
it  will  be  possible  to  explain  and  to  understand  in  three  dimensions 
the  results  provided  by  the  multi-dimensional  theory.  I  see  nothing  in 
Mr  Schrodinger's  calculations  that  would  justify  this  hope.  What  Mr 
Schrodinger  does  in  his  very  beautiful  approximation  method,  is  to 
replace  the  n-dimensional  differential  equations  by  an  infinity  of  linear 
equations.  That  reduces  the  problem,  as  Mr  Schrodinger  himself  states, 
to  a  problem  with  ordinary  matrices,  in  which  the  coefficients  can  be 
interpreted  in  three-dimensional  space.  The  equations  are  thus  'three- 
dimensional'  exactly  in  the  same  sense  as  in  the  usual  matrix  theory. 
It  thus  seems  to  me  that,  in  the  classical  sense,  we  are  just  as  far  from 
understanding  the  theory  in  three  dimensions  as  we  are  in  the  matrix 
theory. 

Mr  Schrodinger.  —  I  would  not  know  how  to  express  more  precisely 
my  hope  of  a  possible  formulation  in  a  three-dimensional  space.  Besides, 
I  do  not  believe  that  one  would  obtain  simpler  calculational  methods  in 
this  way,  and  it  is  probable  that  one  will  always  do  calculations  using 
the  multi-dimensional  wave  equation.  But  then  one  will  be  able  to  grasp 
its  physical  meaning  better.  I  am  not  precisely  searching  for  a  three- 
dimensional  partial  differential  equation.  Such  a  simple  formulation  is 
surely  impossible.  If  I  am  not  satisfied  with  the  current  state  of  the 
problem,  it  is  because  I  do  not  understand  yet  the  physical  meaning  of 
its  solution. 


472 


E.  Schrddinger 


What  Mr  Heisenberg  has  said  is  mathematically  unexceptionable, 
but  the  point  in  question  is  that  of  the  physical  interpretation.  This 
is  indispensable  for  the  further  development  of  the  theory.  Now,  this 
development  is  necessary.  For  one  must  agree  that  all  current  ways  of 
formulating  the  results  of  the  new  quantum  mechanics  only  correspond 
to  the  classical  mechanics  of  actions  at  a  distance.  As  soon  as  light 
crossing  times  become  relevant  in  the  system,  the  new  mechanics  fails, 
because  the  classical  potential  energy  function  no  longer  exists. 

Allow  me,  to  show  that  my  hope  of  achieving  a  three-dimensional 
conception  is  not  quite  Utopian,  to  recall  what  Mr  Fowler  has  told 
us  on  the  topic  of  Mr  Hartree's  approximation  method0  It  is  true 
that  this  method  abstracts  from  what  one  calls  the  'exchange  terms' 
(which  correspond,  for  instance,  to  the  distance  between  the  ortho  and 
para  terms  of  neutral  helium).  But,  abstracting  from  that,  it  already 
achieves  the  three-dimensional  aim  I  tend  to.  Should  one  declare  a  priori 
impossible  that  Hartree's  method  might  be  modified  or  developed  in  such 
a  way  as  to  take  into  account  the  exchange  terms  while  working  with  a 
satisfactory  three-dimensional  model? 

Mr  Born.  —  Regarding  the  question  of  knowing  whether  it  is  possible 
to  describe  a  many-electron  problem  by  a  field  equation  in  three  dimen- 
sions, I  would  like  to  point  out  the  following.  The  number  of  quantum 
numbers  of  an  atom  rises  by  three  with  each  additional  electron;  it  is  thus 
equal  to  3n  for  n  electrons.  It  seems  doubtful  that  there  should  be  an 
ordinary,  three-dimensional  eigenvalue  problem,  whose  eigenvalues  have 
a  range  of  size  oo3™  [dont  la  valeur  caracteristique  ait  une  multitude  de 
oo3™  dimensions]  0  Instead,  it  follows  from  recent  papers  by  Dirac  and 
Jordan^  that  one  can  build  on  a  three-dimensional  oscillation  equation  if 
one  considers  the  eigenfunction  itself  not  as  an  ordinary  number,  but  as 
one  of  Dirac's  q-numbers,  that  is,  if  one  quantises  again  its  amplitude  as  a 
function  of  time.  An  n-quanta  oscillation  with  this  amplitude  then  yields 
together  with  the  three  spatial  quantum  numbers  the  necessary  range 
[multitude]  of  quantum  numbers.  From  this  point  of  view  the  number  of 
electrons  in  a  system  appears  itself  as  a  quantum  number,  that  is,  the 
electrons  themselves  appear  as  discontinuities  of  the  same  nature  as  the 

a  See  the  discussion  after  Bragg's  report,  p.  13181  (eds. ). 

b  The  French  text  here  appears  to  make  little  sense,  but  Born  is  possibly  referring 

to  the  dimension  of  the  space  of  solutions  (eds.). 
c  Cf.  section  IV  of  Born  and  Heisenberg's  report  (eds.). 


Discussion  473 

stationary  states. 

Mr  Schrodinger.  —  Precisely  the  structure  of  the  periodic  system 
is  already  contained  in  the  physics  [mecanique]  of  the  three-dimensional 
hydrogen  problem.  The  degrees  of  degeneracy  1,  4,  9,  16,  etc.,  multiplied 
by  2,  yield  precisely  the  periodic  numbers  [nombres  de  periodes].  The 
factor  2  that  I  have  just  mentioned  derives  from  the  spin  [giration  (spin)]. 
From  the  point  of  view  of  wave  mechanics,  the  apparently  mysterious 
'Pauli  action'  of  the  first  two  electrons  on  the  third  (which  they  prevent 
from  also  following  an  orbit  with  quantum  number  1)  means  strictly 
speaking  nothing  other  than  the  non-existence  of  a  third  eigenfunction 
with  principal  quantum  number  1.  This  non-existence  is  precisely  a 
property  of  the  three-dimensional  model,  or  of  the  three-dimensional 
equation.  The  multi-dimensional  equation  has  too  many  eigenfunctions; 
it  is  this  [elle]  that  makes  the  'Pauli  exclusion'  (Pauliverbot)  necessary 
to  eliminate  this  defect  El 


a  The  French  text  refers  to  the  four-dimensional  equation  (Tequation  a  quatre 
dimensions')  as  having  too  many  solutions.  This  reading  could  be  correct,  in 
the  sense  that  the  exclusion  principle  was  first  introduced  in  the  context  of  the 
relativistic  (four-dimensional)  Bohr-Sommerfeld  theory  of  the  atom,  but  the  above 
reading  seems  much  more  natural  in  context.  Note  that  Schrodinger  throughout  his 
report  uses  'vierdimensional'  and  'vieldimensional',  which  could  be  easily  confused, 
for  'four-dimensional'  and  'many-dimensional',  respectively  (eds.). 


474 


Notes  to  pp.  447-463 


Notes  to  the  translation 


1  Here  and  in  the  following,  the  French  edition  omits  some  italics,  which 
are  quite  characteristic  of  Schrodinger's  writing  style  and  which  we 
tacitly  restore. 

2  [Energiegerade]  —  [serie  des  energies] 

3  Bracket  added  in  the  French  edition. 

4  [als  Beschreibung]  —  [comme  la  definition] 

5  [Vollstandigkeit]  —  [perfection] 

6  [freilich]  —  [evidemment] 

7  Printed  as  a  footnote  in  the  French  edition. 

8  [sie  nicht  ....  beschreibe]  —  [qu'ils  ne  decrivent  pas] 

9  [Einzelsystem]  —  [systeme  determine] 

10  This  clause  is  omitted  in  the  French  edition. 

11  [von  anderer  Seite  vertreten]  —  [defendue  par  d'autres].  Footnote  only  in 
the  French  edition. 

12  [aus  einer  Anzahl]  —  [d'un  grand  nombre] 

13  [Durch  die  eben  besprochene  Deutung]  —  [Ainsi  que  nous  venons  de  le 
voir] 

14  The  equation  number  is  missing  in  the  French  edition,  and  the  following 
sentence  is  printed  as  a  footnote. 

15  [es  gebe]  —  [sont  donnees] 

16  [weitgehend]  —  [tout  a  fait] 

17  [Verstandnis]  —  [interpretation] 

18  [  Verstandnis]  —  [signification] 

19  No  exclamation  mark  in  the  French  edition. 

20  [innere]  —  [intimes] 

21  [eine  prinzipielle]  —  [essentielle] 

22  No  exclamation  mark  in  the  French  edition. 

23  Printed  as  a  footnote  in  the  French  edition. 

24  In  the  French  edition  this  equation  number  is  given  to  the  following 
equation  (unnumbered  in  the  typescript). 

25  Bracket  printed  as  a  footnote  in  the  French  edition,  with  the  addition:  'A 
stands  for  the  Laplacian'. 

26  If]  -  [ef  ] 

27  [die  Ladungsdichte  aus  i/iip*]  —  [la  densite  de  charge  t})i]>*\ 

28  [Betrag]  —  [valeur] 

29  Bracket  printed  as  a  footnote  in  the  French  edition. 

30  The  rest  of  the  bracket  is  printed  as  a  footnote  in  the  French  edition. 

31  Both  typescript  and  French  edition  give  '365'  as  page  number. 

32  The  French  edition  adds  this  to  the  footnote. 

33  [treten  darin  in  ip  und  seinen  ersten  Ableitungen  quadratische  Formen 
auf]  —  [y  figurent  dans  tj)  et  ses  premieres  derivees  des  formes 
quadratiques] 

34  Footnote  only  in  the  French  edition. 

35  [bewegend]  —  [par  le  mouvement] 

36  [allerdings  —  [certainement] 

37  [CEl)]  —  [©] 

38  The  French  edition  omits  the  inverted  commas. 

39  The  equation  number  is  missing  in  the  printed  volume. 

40  [3n-dimensional]  —  [tridimensionelle] 


Notes  to  pp.  463-466 


475 


41  Misprint  in  the  French  edition:  the  Ek  are  not  in  the  exponent. 

42  [komplet[t]e]  —  [complexe] 

43  [dass  fur  die  Abhangigkeit  der  a  von  der  Zeit  folgende  Forderungen 
bestehen]  —  [que  pour  que  a  depende  du  temps  les  conditions  suivantes 
doivent  etre  satisfaites] 

44  Two  misprints  in  the  French  edition:  the  Ek  are  not  in  the  exponent,  and 
the  ki  run  to  n. 

45  Printed  as  a  footnote  in  the  French  edition. 

46  [unseres  Ansatzes]  —  [de  notre  expression  fondamentale] 

47  [den  einzelnen]  —  [les  diverses] 

48  Bracket  printed  as  footnote  in  the  French  edition. 

49  [bestimmen  die  Losung  exact]  —  [determinent  la  solution] 

50  Misprint  in  the  French  edition:  ta,  ■  •  ■ ,  kn)\ 

51  Both  the  typescript  and  the  French  edition  read  'c;'  and  'Cfc'  instead  of 
'a;'  and  'a^. 

52  Again,  both  the  typescript  and  the  French  edition  read  lCk'  instead  of 

'Ofc'. 


General  discussion  of  the  new  ideas 
presented3 


Causality,  determinism,  probability 

Mr  Lorentz.  —  I  should  like  to  draw  attention  to  the  difficulties  one 
encounters  in  the  old  theories. 

We  wish  to  make  a  representation  of  the  phenomena,  to  form  an  image 
of  them  in  our  minds.  Until  now,  we  have  always  wanted  to  form  these 
images  by  means  of  the  ordinary  notions  of  time  and  space.  These  notions 
are  perhaps  innate;  in  any  case,  they  have  developed  from  our  personal 
experience,  by  our  daily  observations.  For  me,  these  notions  are  clear 
and  I  confess  that  I  should  be  unable  to  imagine  physics  without  these 
notions.  The  image  that  I  wish  to  form  of  phenomena  must  be  absolutely 
sharp  and  definite,  and  it  seems  to  me  that  we  can  form  such  an  image 
only  in  the  framework  of  space  and  time. 

For  me,  an  electron  is  a  corpuscle  that,  at  a  given  instant,  is  present  at 
a  definite  point  in  space,  and  if  I  had  the  idea  that  at  a  following  moment 
the  corpuscle  is  present  somewhere  else,  I  must  think  of  its  trajectory, 
which  is  a  line  in  space.  And  if  the  electron  encounters  an  atom  and 
penetrates  it,  and  after  several  incidents  leaves  the  atom,  I  make  up  a 
theory  in  which  the  electron  preserves  its  individuality;  that  is  to  say, 
I  imagine  a  line  following  which  the  electron  passes  through  the  atom. 

a  As  mentioned  in  section  11.61  the  Bohr  archives  contain  a  copy  of  the  galley 
proofs  of  the  general  discussion,  dated  1  June  1928. XA  few  of  the  contributions 
in  these  proofs  seem  to  have  been  still  largely  unedited:  they  contain  some  gaps 
and  incomplete  sentences,  some  more  colloquial  formulations,  and  in  at  least  one 
case  a  sentence  that  was  dropped  from  the  published  volume.  We  reproduce  in 
endnotes  the  most  substantial  examples  of  these  alternative  versions.  For  most  of 
the  discussion  contributions  by  Dirac,  we  have  followed  his  manuscript  version. 2For 
Bohr's  discussion  contributions,  we  have  used  material  from  Bohr  (1985)  and  from 
notes  taken  by  Richardson3  (also  mentioned  in  section[E6j.  See  our  notes  for  further 
details  (eds.). 


476 


Causality,  determinism,  probability 


477 


Obviously,  such  a  theory  may  be  very  difficult  to  develop,  but  a  priori 
it  does  not  seem  to  me  impossible. 

I  imagine  that,  in  the  new  theory,  one  still  has  electrons.  It  is  of  course 
possible  that  in  the  new  theory,  once  it  is  well-developed,  one  will  have  to 
suppose  that  the  electrons  undergo  transformations.  I  happily  concede 
that  the  electron  may  dissolve  into  a  cloud.  But  then  I  would  try  to 
discover  on  which  occasion  this  transformation  occurs.  If  one  wished  to 
forbid  me  such  an  enquiry  by  invoking  a  principle,  that  would  trouble 
me  very  much.  It  seems  to  me  that  one  may  always  hope  one  will  do  later 
that  which  we  cannot  yet  do  at  the  moment.  Even  if  one  abandons  the  old 
ideas,  one  may  always  preserve  the  old  classifications  [denominations].  I 
should  like  to  preserve  this  ideal  of  the  past,  to  describe  everything  that 
happens  in  the  world  with  distinct  images.  I  am  ready  to  accept  other 
theories,  on  condition  that  one  is  able  to  re-express  them  in  terms  of 
clear  and  distinct  images. 

For  my  part,  despite  not  having  yet  become  familiar  with  the  new 
ideas  that  I  now  hear  expressed^  I  could  visualise  these  ideas  thus.  Let 
us  take  the  case  of  an  electron  that  encounters  an  atom;  let  us  suppose 
that  the  electron  leaves  the  atom  and  that  at  the  same  time  there  is 
emission  of  a  light  quantum.  One  must  consider,  in  the  first  place,  the 
systems  of  waves  that  correspond  to  the  electron  and  to  the  atom  before 
the  collision.  After  the  collision,  we  will  have  new  systems  of  waves. 
These  systems  of  waves  can  be  described  by  a  function  -0  defined  in  a 
space  with  a  large  number  of  dimensions  and  satisfying  a  differential 
equation.  The  new  wave  mechanics  will  work  with  this  equation  and  will 
determine  the  function  ijj  before  and  after  the  collision. 

Now,  there  are  phenomena  that  teach  us  that  there  is  something 
else  in  addition  to  the  waves,  namely  corpuscles;  one  can,  for  example, 
perform  an  experiment  with  a  Faraday  cylinder;  one  must  then  take 
into  account  the  individuality  of  the  electrons  and  also  of  the  photons.  I 
think  I  would  find  that,  to  explain  the  phenomena,  it  suffices  to  assume 
that  the  expression  iptp*  gives  the  probability  that  the  electrons  and 
the  photons  exist  in  a  given  volume;  that  would  suffice  to  explain  the 
experiments.  But  the  examples  given  by  Mr  Heisenberg  teach  me  that  I 
will  have  thus  attained  everything  that  experiment  allows  me  to  attain. 
However,  I  think  that  this  notion  of  probability  should  be  placed  at 

a  In  fact,  Lorentz  had  followed  the  recent  developments  rather  closely.  In  particular, 
he  had  corresponded  extensively  with  Ehrenfest  and  with  Schrodinger,  and  had 
even  delivered  seminars  and  lectures  on  wave  mechanics  and  on  matrix  mechanics 
at  Leiden,  Cornell  and  Caltech.  See  sectionfOl ( eds.). 


478 


General  discussion 


the  end,  and  as  a  conclusion,  of  theoretical  considerations,  and  not  as 
an  a  priori  axiom,  though  I  may  well  admit  that  this  indeterminacy 
corresponds  to  experimental  possibilities.  I  would  always  be  able  to  keep 
my  deterministic  faith  for  the  fundamental  phenomena,  of  which  I  have 
not  spoken.  Could  a  deeper  mind  not  be  aware  of  the  motions  of  these 
electrons?  Could  one  not  keep  determinism  by  making  it  an  object  of 
belief?  Must  one  necessarily  elevate  indeterminism  to  a  principle? 

Mr  Bohr  expounds  his  point  of  view  with  respect  to  the  problems 
of  quantum  theory. 

The  original  published  proceedings  add  '(see  the  preceding  article)'.  In  the 
proceedings,  the  article  preceding  the  general  discussion  is  a  French  translation 
of  the  German  version  of  Bohr's  Como  lecture  (Bohr  1928)  (published  in 
Naturwissenschaften) .  As  described  in  section  11.61  this  article  was  included 
at  Bohr's  request,  to  replace  his  remarks  made  at  this  point  in  the  general 
discussion.  (In  our  translation  of  the  proceedings,  we  have  omitted  this  well- 
known  article.) 

The  extant  notes  relating  to  Bohr's  remarks  at  this  point  are  particularly 
fragmentary.  Kalckar's  introduction  to  volume  6  of  Bohr's  Collected  Works 
(Bohr  1985)  describes  the  corresponding  part  of  notes  (taken  by  Kramers  and 
by  Verschaffelt)  in  the  Bohr  archives  as  too  incomplete  to  warrant  reproduction 
in  that  volume,  but  provides  the  following  summary  and  comparison  with  the 
printed  versions  of  the  Como  lecture:  'The  notes  cover  the  wave-corpuscle 
aspects  of  light  and  matter  (corresponding  to  the  first  sections  of  the  printed 
lecture).  The  7-ray  microscope  is  analysed,  although  the  notes  are  somewhat 
incomplete  here  (as  in  many  other  places),  and  the  role  of  the  finite  wave 
trains  is  discussed  in  connection  with  the  momentum  measurement  through 
the  Doppler  effect  (as  in  the  printed  versions).  After  some  questions  ....  Bohr 
continues  by  discussing  the  significance  of  the  phase  and  comments  on  the 
Stern-Gerlach  experiment  and  the  inobservability  of  the  phase  in  a  stationary 
state  ....  '  (Bohr  1985,  p.  37). 

Further  details  of  what  Bohr  said  at  this  point  may  be  obtained  from  notes 
on  the  general  discussion  taken  by  Richardson.4  Below,  we  reproduce  the 
relevant  parts  of  these  notes,  and  comment  on  their  relation  to  Bohr's  paper 
translated  in  the  proceedings. 

The  first  part  of  Richardson's  notes  relating  to  Bohr  reads  as  follows: 


p  =  hr 

Int[er]f[eren]ce.  ?h  — >  00  [?] 

AxAtx    ~    1  1  AxApx    ~  h 

AtAv      ~    1  I  AtAE     ~  h 


Causality,  determinism,  probability 


479 


y  ray 

microscope 


Compton 
effect 


Fig.  A. 


This  corresponds  to  part  of  section  2  of  Bohr's  paper  translated  in  the  proceed- 
ings. There  Bohr  introduces  the  concepts  of  energy  and  momentum  for  plane 
waves,  and  the  idea  that  waves  of  limited  extent  in  spacetime  are  obtained 
through  the  'interference'  (that  is,  superposition)  of  different  plane  waves,  the 
resulting  waves  satisfying  (at  best)  the  given  relations.  (As  a  consequence,  a 
group  of  waves  has  no  well-defined  phase,  a  point  Bohr  takes  up  again  below.) 
This  is  used  to  justify  Bohr's  idea  of  complementarity  between  a  causal  picture 
(in  the  sense  of  energy-momentum  conservation  for  elementary  processes)  and 
a  spacetime  picture. 

Richardson's  notes  then  continue  as  shown  in  Fig.  A.  The  7-ray  microscope 
is  discussed  in  section  3  of  Bohr  (1928)  (the  section  on  measurement,  which 
also  discusses  momentum  measurements  based  on  the  Doppler  effect).  Bohr 
appears  to  have  inserted  a  discussion  of  these  experiments  as  an  illustration 
of  the  uncertainty-type  relations  above. 

The  next  part  of  Richardson's  notes  returns  to  section  2  of  the  paper,  and  is 
reproduced  in  Fig.  B.  This  corresponds  in  fact  to  the  subsequent  paragraphs 
of  section  2,  in  which  Bohr  applies  the  notion  of  complementarity  to  resolve 
the  perceived  paradoxes  related  to  the  scattering  of  radiation  by  free  electrons 
(note  the  extended  —  as  opposed  to  pointlike  —  region  of  scattering  in  the 
diagram,  and  see  Bohr's  contribution  to  the  discussion  of  Compton's  report, 
p.l60l)  as  well  as  the  perceived  paradoxes  related  to  collisions  (cf.  sectionl3.4.2p. 


480 


General  discussion 


7 


Energy  &  momentum 
pfrincijples.  Must  have 


same  uncertainty  on 
both  sides  of  this  =  n 
[equation]. 


Important  that  formulae 
do  not  contain  the  mass. 
De  Donder  says  also  in 
relativity  theory. 


Fig.  B. 


Possibly,  I  stands  for  'Impuls'  (that  is,  momentum),  R  for  radiation,  q  for 
charge. 

The  next  part  of  Richardson's  notes,  shown  in  Fig.  C,  instead  relates  to  part 
of  section  6  of  Bohr's  paper  (sections  4  and  5  of  the  paper  are,  respectively, 
a  review  of  the  correspondence  principle  and  of  matrix  mechanics,  and  a 
discussion  and  critique  of  wave  mechanics).  In  section  6  of  the  published 
paper,  Bohr  raises  the  following  puzzle.  According  to  Bohr,  in  any  observation 
that  distinguishes  between  different  stationary  states  one  has  to  disregard  the 
past  history  of  the  atom,  but,  paradoxically,  the  theory  assigns  a  phase  to  a 
stationary  state.  However,  since  the  system  will  not  be  strictly  isolated,  one 
will  work  with  a  group  of  waves,  which  (as  mentioned  in  section  2)  has  no 
well-defined  phase.  Bohr  then  illustrates  this  with  the  Stern-Gerlach  experi- 
ment. The  condition  for  distinguishability  of  the  eigenstates  of  the  hydrogen 
atom  is  that  the  angular  spreading  of  the  beam  should  be  greater  than  that 
given  by  diffraction  at  the  slit  (e  >  a),  which  translates  into  the  time-energy 
uncertainty  relation.  As  Bohr  mentions,  Heisenberg  (1927)  uses  this  as  an 
illustration  of  the  uncertainty  relation,  while  Bohr  uses  it  as  an  illustration  of 
how  knowledge  of  the  phase  is  lost.  (This  section  also  discusses  the  limit  of 
high  quantum  numbers.) 

The  final  section  7  of  the  paper  ('The  problem  of  elementary  particles')  has 
no  parallel  in  Richardson's  notes.  The  part  of  the  notes  relating  to  Bohr's 
remarks  at  this  point  concludes  instead  with  the  following  (explicitly  labelled 
'Bohr'): 


Causality,  determinism,  probability 


481 


Group  of  waves  has  no  phase. 


-  angle  for  optical  resol[utio]n 


,  SE 


Sp  T   

Stern  &  Gerlach     s  =       =       d.  hi 
V  IX 


s  >  a  SE 

TSE>h       T  —  >  1 


Schroedinger  waves 


TSvH>  1 


In  stationary  states.  Phase  is  lost  (of  <de  B.  >  {Schrodingerj  waves). 
Vt+(pl 

Vt+ip2+  TAv 


Fig.  C. 


1.  [blank] 

2.  Stationary  states,  past  lost  Y  [because]  phase  indetermination  —  Stern 
&  Gerlach's  Exp[erimen]t. 

3.  Schroedinger's  ip,  prob[abilit]y  of  electron  at  a  given  place  at  a  given 
time  [?],  uncertainty  AvAt  <~  1 


v 

7  x  - 

c 


Mr  Brillouin.  —  Mr  Bohr  insists  on  the  uncertainty  of  simultaneous 
measurements  of  position  and  momentum;  his  point  of  view  is  closely 
connected  to  the  notion  of  cells  in  phase  space  introduced  by  Planck  a 
very  long  time  ago.  Planck  assumed  that  if  the  representative  point  of 
a  system  is  in  a  cell  (of  size  ApAq  =  h)  one  cannot  distinguish  it  from 
another  point  in  the  same  cell.  The  examples  brought  by  Mr  Bohr  aptly 
make  precise  the  physical  meaning  of  this  quite  abstract  notion. 


Mr  De  Donder.  —  The  considerations  that  Mr  Bohr  has  just  de- 
veloped are,  I  think,  in  close  relation  with  the  following  fact:  in  the 


482  General  discussion 

Einsteinian  Gravitation^  of  a  continuous  system  or  of  a  pointlike  system, 
there  appear  not  the  masses  and  charges  of  the  particles,  but  entities 
r(m)  ancj  r(e)  -m  jQur  dimensions;  note  that  these  generalised  masses  and 
charges,  localised  in  spacetime,  are  conserved  along  their  worldlines. 

Mr  Born.  —  Mr  Einstein  has  considered  the  following  problem:  A 
radioactive  sample  emits  a-particles  in  all  directions;  these  are  made  vi- 
sible by  the  method  of  the  Wilson  cloud  [chamber].  Now,  if  one  associates 
a  spherical  wave  with  each  emission  process,  how  can  one  understand 
that  the  track  of  each  a  particle  appears  as  a  (very  nearly)  straight  line? 
In  other  words:  how  can  the  corpuscular  character  of  the  phenomenon 
be  reconciled  here  with  the  representation  by  waves? 

To  do  this,  one  must  appeal  to  the  notion  of  'reduction  of  the  proba- 
bility packet'  developed  by  HeisenbergQ  The  description  of  the  emission 
by  a  spherical  wave  is  valid  only  for  as  long  as  one  does  not  observe 
ionisation;  as  soon  as  such  ionisation  is  shown  by  the  appearance  of 
cloud  droplets,  in  order  to  describe  what  happens  afterwards  one  must 
'reduce'  the  wave  packet  in  the  immediate  vicinity  of  the  drops.  One 
thus  obtains  a  wave  packet  in  the  form  of  a  ray,  which  corresponds  to 
the  corpuscular  character  of  the  phenomenon. 

Mr  PaulS  has  asked  me  if  it  is  not  possible  to  describe  the  process  wi- 
thout the  reduction  of  wave  packets,  by  resorting  to  a  multi-dimensional 
space,  whose  number  of  dimensions  is  three  times  the  number  of  all  the 
particles  present  (a-particles  and  atoms  hit  by  the  radiation). 

This  is  in  fact  possible  and  can  even  be  represented  in  a  very  anschau- 
lich  manner  [d'une  maniere  fort  intuitive]  by  means  of  an  appropriate 
simplification,  but  this  does  not  lead  us  further  as  regards  the  fundamen- 
tal questions.  Nevertheless,  I  should  like  to  present  this  case  here  as  an 
example  of  the  multi-dimensional  treatment  of  such  problems.  I  assume, 
for  simplicity,  that  there  are  only  two  atoms  that  may  be  hit.  One  then 
has  to  distinguish  two  cases:  either  the  two  atoms  1  and  2  lie  on  the 
same  ray  starting  from  the  origin  (the  place  where  the  preparation  is), 

a  Th.  De  Donder,  Theorie  des  champs  gravifiques  (Memorial  des  sciences 
mathematiques,  part  14,  Paris,  1926).  See  esp.  equations  (184),  (184')  and 
(188),  (188').  One  can  also  consult  our  lectures:  The  Mathematical  Theory  of 
Relativity  (Massachusetts  Institute  of  Technology),  Cambridge,  Mass.,  1927.  See 
esp.  equations  (23),  (24)  and  (28),  (29). 

a  Born  is  referring  here  in  particular  to  Heisenberg's  uncertainty  paper  (Heisenberg 
1927)  (eel*.)- 

b  Cf.  Pauli's  letter  to  Bohr,  17  October  1927,  discussed  in  section  16.2.1 1 ( eds.). 


Causality,  determinism,  probability 


483 


Fig.  1. 

or  they  do  not  lie  on  the  same  ray.  If  we  represent  by  e  the  probability 
that  an  atom  will  be  hit,  we  have  the  following  probability  diagram@ 

I.  The  points  1  and  2  are  located  on  the  same  ray  starting  from  the 
origin. 

Number  of  particles  hit  Probability 

0  l-£ 

1  0 

2  e 


a  In  the  following  tables,  the  probability  for  the  number  of  particles  hit  to  equal  1 
should  be  read  as  the  probability  for  each  case  in  which  the  number  of  particles 
hit  equals  1  (eds.). 


484 


General  discussion 


II.  The  points  1  and  2  are  not  on  the  same  ray. 

Number  of  particles  hit  Probability 

0  1  -  2e 

1  £ 

2  0 

This  is  how  one  should  express  the  probability  of  events  in  the  case  of 
rectilinear  propagation. 

To  make  possible  a  graphical  representation  of  the  phenomenon,  we 
will  simplify  it  further  by  assuming  that  all  the  motions  take  place 
following  only  a  single  straight  line,  the  axis  x.  We  must  then  distinguish 
the  two  cases  where  the  atoms  lie  on  the  same  side  and  on  either  side  of 
the  origin.  The  corresponding  probabilities  are  the  following: 


I.  The  points  1  and  2  are  located  on  the  same  side. 

Number  of  particles  hit  Probability 

0  \ 

1  0 

2  i 

Z  2 

II.  The  points  1  and  2  are  located  on  different  sides. 

Number  of  particles  hit  Probability 

0  0 

1  \ 

2  0 

Now,  these  relations  can  be  represented  by  the  motion  of  a  wave  packet 
in  a  space  with  three  dimensions  xq,  xi,  x^.  To  the  initial  state  there 
corresponds: 

In  case  I,  the  point     xo  =  0,    x\  =  a    xi  =  b 
In  case  II,  the  point    xo  —  0,    x\  =  a    X2  =  —b 

where  a  and  b  are  positive  numbers.  The  wave  packet  at  first  fills  the 
space  surrounding  these  points  and  subsequently  moves  parallel  to  the 
axis  Xo ,  dividing  itself  into  two  packets  of  the  same  size  going  in  opposite 
directions.  Collisions  are  produced  when  x0  =  x\  or  xn  =  x2,  that  is  to 
say,  on  two  planes  of  which  one,  Pi,  is  parallel  to  the  axis  xi  and  cuts 
the  plane  x$x\  following  the  bisector  of  the  positive  quadrant,  while  the 
second,  P2,  is  parallel  to  the  axis  x\  and  cuts  the  plane  xqx-i  following 
the  bisector  of  the  positive  quadrant.  As  soon  as  the  wave  packet  strikes 


Causality,  determinism,  probability 


485 


the  plane  Pi,  its  trajectory  receives  a  small  kink  in  the  direction  X\\  as 
soon  as  it  strikes  P2  the  trajectory  receives  a  kink  in  the  direction  X2 
(Fig.  1). 

Now,  one  immediately  sees  in  the  figure  that  the  upper  part  of  the 
wave  packet,  which  corresponds  to  case  I,  strikes  the  planes  Pi,  P2  on 
the  same  side  of  the  plane  XiX2,  while  the  lower  part  strikes  them5 
on  different  sides.  The  figure  then  gives  an  anschaulich  representation 
of  the  cases  indicated  in  the  above  diagram.  It  allows  us  to  recognise 
immediately  whether,  for  a  given  size  of  wave  packet,  a  given  state,  that 
is  to  say  a  given  point  xo,  xi,x2,  can  be  hit  or  not. 

To  the  'reduction'  of  the  wave  packet  corresponds  the  choice  of  one 
of  the  two  directions  of  propagation  +x0,  —  x0,  which  one  must  take  as 
soon  as  it  is  established  that  one  of  the  two  points  1  and  2  is  hit,  that 
is  to  say,  that  the  trajectory  of  the  packet  has  received  a  kink. 

This  example  serves  only  to  make  clear  that  a  complete  description  of 
the  processes  taking  place  in  a  system  composed  of  several  molecules  is 
possible  only  in  a  space  of  several  dimensions. 

Mr  EinsteinEI  —  Despite  being  conscious  of  the  fact  that  I  have  not 
entered  deeply  enough  into  the  essence  of  quantum  mechanics,  nevert- 
heless I  want  to  present  here  some  general  remarks!! 

One  can  take  two  positions  towards  the  theory  with  respect  to  its 
postulated  domain  of  validity,  which  I  wish  to  characterise  with  the  aid 
of  a  simple  example. 

Let  S  be  a  screen  provided  with  a  small  opening  0  (Fig.  2),  and  P  a 
hemispherical  photographic  film  of  large  radius.  Electrons  impinge  on  S 
in  the  direction  of  the  arrows.  Some  of  these  go  through  0,  and  because  of 
the  smallness  of  0  and  the  speed  of  the  particles,  are  dispersed  uniformly 
over  the  directions  of  the  hemisphere,  and  act  on  the  film. 

Both  ways  of  conceiving  the  theory  now  have  the  following  in  common. 
There  are  de  Broglie  waves,  which  impinge  approximately  normally  on  S 
and  are  diffracted  at  0.  Behind  S  there  are  spherical  waves,  which  reach 
the  screen  P  and  whose  intensity  at  P  is  responsible  [massgebend]  for 
what  happens  at  P@ 

a  The  extant  manuscript  in  the  Einstein  archives6  consists  of  the  first  four  paragraphs 

only,  which  we  have  translated  here  (footnoting  significant  differences  from  the 

published  French)  (eds.). 
b  The  published  French  has:  'I  must  apologise  for  not  having  gone  deeply  into 

quantum  mechanics.  I  should  nevertheless  want  to  make  some  general  remarks' 

(eds.). 

c  In  the  published  French,  the  German  expression  'ist  massgebend'  is  misrendered 


486 


General  discussion 


Fig.  2. 

We  can  now  characterise  the  two  points  of  view  as  follows. 

1.  Conception  I.  —  The  de  Broglie-Schrodinger  waves  do  not  correspond 
to  a  single  electron,  but  to  a  cloud  of  electrons  extended  in  space.  The 
theory  gives  no  information  about  individual  processes,  but  only  about 
the  ensemble  of  an  infinity  of  elementary  processes. 

2.  Conception  II.  —  The  theory  claims  to  be  a  complete  theory  of 
individual  processes.  Each  particle  directed  towards  the  screen,  as  far 
as  can  be  determined  by  its  position  and  speed,  is  described  by  a  packet 
of  de  Broglie-Schrodinger  waves  of  short  wavelength  and  small  angular 
width.  This  wave  packet  is  diffracted  and,  after  diffraction,  partly  reaches 
the  film  P  in  a  state  of  resolution  [un  etat  de  resolution]. 

According  to  the  first,  purely  statistical,  point  of  view  \ip\  expresses 
the  probability  that  there  exists  at  the  point  considered  a  particular 
particle  of  the  cloud,  for  example  at  a  given  point  on  the  screen. 

According  to  the  second,  expresses  the  probability  that  at  a  given 
instant  the  same  particle  is  present  at  a  given  point  (for  example  on  the 
screen).  Here,  the  theory  refers  to  an  individual  process  and  claims  to 
describe  everything  that  is  governed  by  laws. 

as  'donne  la  mesure'  [gives  the  measure]  instead  of  as  'is  responsible'.  This  is  of 
some  significance  for  the  interpretation  of  Einstein's  remarks  as  a  form  of  the  later 
EPR  argument;  see  section  I7TT1  (eds. ). 


Causality,  determinism,  probability 


487 


The  second  conception  goes  further  than  the  first,  in  the  sense  that  all 
the  information  resulting  from  I  results  also  from  the  theory  by  virtue 
of  II,  but  the  converse  is  not  trueQ  It  is  only  by  virtue  of  II  that  the 
theory  contains  the  consequence  that  the  conservation  laws  are  valid  for 
the  elementary  process;  it  is  only  from  II  that  the  theory  can  derive 
the  result  of  the  experiment  of  Geiger  and  Bothe,  and  can  explain  the 
fact  that  in  the  Wilson  [cloud]  chamber  the  droplets  stemming  from  an 
a-particle  are  situated  very  nearly  on  continuous  lines. 

But  on  the  other  hand,  I  have  objections  to  make  to  conception  II. 
The  scattered  wave  directed  towards  P  does  not  show  any  privileged 
direction.  If  \i(;\2  were  simply  regarded  as  the  probability  that  at  a  certain 
point  a  given  particle  is  found  at  a  given  time,  it  could  happen  that  the 
same  elementary  process  produces  an  action  in  two  or  several  places 
on  the  screen.  But  the  interpretation,  according  to  which  l^2  expresses 
the  probability  that  this  particle  is  found  at  a  given  point,  assumes  an 
entirely  peculiar  mechanism  of  action  at  a  distance,  which  prevents  the 
wave  continuously  distributed  in  space  from  producing  an  action  in  two 
places  on  the  screen. 

In  my  opinion,  one  can  remove  this  objection  only  in  the  following 
way,  that  one  does  not  describe  the  process  solely  by  the  Schrodinger 
wave,  but  that  at  the  same  time  one  localises  the  particle  during  the 
propagation.  I  think  that  Mr  de  Broglie  is  right  to  search  in  this  directi- 
on. If  one  works  solely  with  the  Schrodinger  waves,  interpretation  II  of 
|  "01 2  implies  to  my  mind  a  contradiction  with  the  postulate  of  relativity. 

I  should  also  like  to  point  out  briefly  two  arguments  which  seem  to  me 
to  speak  against  the  point  of  view  II.  This  [view]  is  essentially  tied  to  a 
multi-dimensional  representation  (configuration  space),  since  only  this 
mode  of  representation  makes  possible  the  interpretation  of  peculiar 
to  conception  II.  Now,  it  seems  to  me  that  objections  of  principle  are 
opposed  to  this  multi-dimensional  representation.  In  this  representation, 
indeed,  two  configurations  of  a  system  that  are  distinguished  only  by  the 
permutation  of  two  particles  of  the  same  species  are  represented  by  two 
different  points  (in  configuration  space) ,  which  is  not  in  accord  with  the 
new  results  in  statistics.  Furthermore,  the  feature  of  forces  of  acting  only 
at  small  spatial  distances  finds  a  less  natural  expression  in  configuration 
space  than  in  the  space  of  three  or  four  dimensions. 

Mr  BohrB  —  I  feel  myself  in  a  very  difficult  position  because  I  don't 

a  The  French  has  'I'  and  'II'  exchanged  in  this  sentence,  which  is  illogical  (eds.). 
a  These  remarks  by  Bohr  do  not  appear  in  the  published  French.  We  have  reproduced 


488 


General  discussion 


understand  what  precisely  is  the  point  which  Einstein  wants  to  [make]. 
No  doubt  it  is  my  fault. 

As  regards  general  problem  I  feel  its  difficulties.  I  would  put  problem 
in  other  way.  I  do  not  know  what  quantum  mechanics  is.  I  think  we 
are  dealing  with  some  mathematical  methods  which  are  adequate  for 
description  of  our  experiments.  Using  a  rigorous  wave  theory  we  are 
claiming  something  which  the  theory  cannot  possibly  give.  [We  must 
realise]  that  we  are  away  from  that  state  where  we  could  hope  of  de- 
scribing things  on  classical  theories.  Understand  same  view  is  held  by 
Born  and  Heisenberg.  I  think  that  we  actually  just  try  to  meet,  as  in 
all  other  theories,  some  requirements  of  nature,  but  difficulty  is  that  we 
must  use  words  which  remind  of  older  theories.  The  whole  foundation  for 
causal  spacetime  description  is  taken  away  by  quantum  theory,  for  it  is 

based  on  assumption  of  observations  without  interference  excluding 

interference  means  exclusion  of  experiment  and  the  whole  meaning  of 
space  and  time  observation  ....  because  we  [have]  interaction  [between 
object  and  measuring  instrument]  and  thereby  we  put  us  on  a  quite 
different  standpoint  than  we  thought  we  could  take  in  classical  theories. 
If  we  speak  of  observations  we  play  with  a  statistical  problem.  There 
are  certain  features  complementary  to  the  wave  pictures  (existence  of 
individuals)  

The  saying  that  spacetime  is  an  abstraction  might  seem  a  philosophi- 
cal triviality  but  nature  reminds  us  that  we  are  dealing  with  something 
of  practical  interest.  Depends  on  how  I  consider  theory.  I  may  not  have 
understood,  but  I  think  the  whole  thing  lies  [therein  that  the]  theory 
is  nothing  else  [but]  a  tool  for  meeting  our  requirements  and  I  think  it 
does. 

Mr  Lorentz.  —  To  represent  the  motion  of  a  system  of  n  material 
points,  one  can  of  course  make  use  of  a  space  of  3  dimensions  with 
n  points  or  of  a  space  of  3n  dimensions  where  the  systems  will  be 
represented  by  a  single  point.  This  must  amount  to  exactly  the  same 
thing;  there  can  be  no  fundamental  difference.  It  is  merely  a  question  of 

them  from  Bohr's  Collected  Works,  vol.  6  (Bohr  1985,  p.  103),  which  contains  a 
reconstruction  of  Bohr's  remarks  from  notes  by  Verschaffelt  (held  in  the  Bohr 
archive).  The  tentative  interpolations  in  square  brackets  are  by  the  editor  of  Bohr 
(1985),  J.  Kalckar  (eds.). 


Causality,  determinism,  probability 


489 


knowing  which  of  the  two  representations  is  the  most  suitable,  which  is 
the  most  convenient. 

But  I  understand  that  there  are  cases  where  the  matter  is  difficult.  If 
one  has  a  representation  in  a  space  of  3n  dimensions,  one  will  be  able  to 
return  to  a  space  of  3  dimensions  only  if  one  can  reasonably  separate  the 
3n  coordinates  into  n  groups  of  3,  each  corresponding  to  a  point,  and  I 
could  imagine  that  there  may  be  cases  where  that  is  neither  natural  nor 
simple.  But,  after  all,  it  certainly  seems  to  me  that  all  this  concerns  the 
form  rather  than  the  substance  of  the  theory. 

Mr  Pauli.  —  I  am  wholly  of  the  same  opinion  as  Mr  Bohr,  when 
he  says  that  the  introduction  of  a  space  with  several  dimensions  is  only 
a  technical  means  of  formulating  mathematically  the  laws  of  mutual 
action  between  several  particles,  actions  which  certainly  do  not  allow 
themselves  to  be  described  simply,  in  the  ordinary  way,  in  space  and 
time.  It  may  perfectly  well  be  that  this  technical  means  may  one  day 
be  replaced  by  another,  in  the  following  fashion.  By  Dirac's  method  one 
can,  for  example,  quantise  the  characteristic  vibrations  of  a  cavity  filled 
with  blackbody  radiation,  and  introduce  a  function  ip  depending  on  the 
amplitudes  of  these  characteristic  vibrations  of  unlimited  number.  One 
can  similarly  use,  as  do  Jordan  and  Klein,  the  amplitudes  of  ordinary 
four-dimensional  material  waves  as  arguments  of  a  multi-dimensional 
function  <j>.  This  gives,  in  the  language  of  the  corpuscular  picture,  the 
probability  that  at  a  given  instant  the  numbers  of  particles  of  each  spe- 
cies present,  which  have  certain  kinematical  properties  (given  position  or 
momentum),  take  certain  values.  This  procedure  also  has  the  advantage 
that  the  defect  of  the  ordinary  multi-dimensional  method,  of  which  Mr 
Einstein  has  spoken  and  which  appears  when  one  permutes  two  particles 
of  the  same  species,  no  longer  exists.  As  Jordan  and  Klein  have  shown, 
making  suitable  assumptions  concerning  the  equations  that  this  function 
4>  of  the  amplitudes  of  material  waves  in  ordinary  space  must  satisfy,7  one 
arrives  exactly  at  the  same  results  as  by  basing  oneself  on  Schrodinger's 
multi-dimensional  theory. 

To  sum  up,  I  wish  then  to  say  that  Bohr's  point  of  view,  according 
to  which  the  properties  of  physical  objects  of  being  defined  and  of  being 
describable  in  space  and  time  are  complementary,  seems  to  be  more 
general  than  a  special  technical  means.  But,  independently  of  such  a 
means,  one  can,  according  to  this  idea,  declare  in  any  case  that  the 
mutual  actions  of  several  particles  certainly  cannot  be  described  in  the 
ordinary  manner  in  space  and  time. 


490 


General  discussion 


To  make  clear  the  state  of  things  of  which  I  have  just  spoken,  allow  me 
to  give  a  special  example.  Imagine  two  hydrogen  atoms  in  their  ground 
state  at  a  great  distance  from  each  other,  and  suppose  one  asks  for  their 
energy  of  mutual  action.  Each  of  the  two  atoms  has  a  perfectly  isotropic 
distribution  of  charge,  is  neutral  as  a  whole,  and  does  not  yet  emit 
radiation.  According  to  the  ordinary  description  of  the  mutual  action 
of  the  atoms  in  space  and  time,  one  should  then  expect  that  such  a 
mutual  action  does  not  exist  when  the  distance  between  the  two  neutral 
spheres  is  so  great  that  no  notable  interpenetration  takes  place  between 
their  charge  clouds.  But  when  one  treats  the  same  question  by  the  multi- 
dimensional method,  the  result  is  quite  different,  and  in  accordance  with 
experiment. 

The  classical  analogy  to  this  last  result  would  be  the  following:  Imagine 
inside  each  atom  a  classical  oscillator  whose  moment  p  varies  periodical- 
ly. This  moment  produces  a  field  at  the  location  of  the  other  atom  whose 
periodically  variable  intensity  is  of  order  £  ~  ,  where  r  is  the  distance 
between  the  two  atoms.  When  two  of  these  oscillators  act  on  each  other, 
a  polarisation  occurs  with  the  following  potential  energy,  corresponding 
to  an  attractive  force  between  the  atoms, 

—  —at   ~  —ap  — 77  , 
2  2  y  r6 

where  a  represents  the  polarisability  of  the  atom. 

In  speaking  of  these  oscillators,  I  only  wanted  to  point  out  a  classical 
analogy  with  the  effect  that  one  obtains  as  a  result  of  multi-dimensional 
wave  mechanics.  I  had  found  this  result  by  means  of  matrices,  but  Wang 
has  derived  it  directly  from  the  wave  equation  in  several  dimensions.  In 
a  paper  by  Heitler  and  London,  which  is  likewise  concerned  with  this 
problem,  the  authors  have  lost  sight  of  the  fact  that,  precisely  for  a  large 
distance  between  the  atoms,  the  contribution  of  polarisation  effects  to 
the  energy  of  mutual  action,  a  contribution  which  they  have  neglected, 
outweighs  in  order  of  magnitude  the  effects  they  have  calculated. 

Mr  DiracEI-  I  should  like  to  express  my  ideas  on  a  few  questions. 
The  first  is  the  one  that  has  just  been  discussed  and  I  have  not  much 
to  add  to  this  discussion.  I  shall  just  mention  the  explanation  that  the 

a  Here  we  mostly  follow  the  English  version  from  Dirac's  manuscript.8 (The  French 
translation  may  have  been  done  from  a  typescript  or  fairer  copy.)  We  generally 
follow  the  French  paragraphing,  and  we  uniformise  Dirac's  notation.  Interesting 
variants,  cancellations  and  additions  will  be  noted,  as  will  significant  deviations 
from  the  published  French  (eds.). 


Causality,  determinism,  probability 


491 


quantum  theory  would  give  of  Bothe's  experiment.9  The  difficulty  arises 
from10  the  inadequacy  of  the  3-dimensional  wave  picture.  This  picture 
cannot  distinguish  between  the  case  when  there  is  a  probability  p  of  a 
light-quant  being  in  a  certain  small  volume,  and  the  case  when  there  is 
a  probability  \p  of  two  light-quanta  being  in  the  volume,  and  no  pro- 
bability for  only  one.  But  the  wave  function  in  many-dimensional  space 
does  distinguish  between  these  cases.  The  theory  of  Bothe's  experiment 
in  many-dimensional  space  would  show  that,  while  there  is  a  certain  pro- 
bability for  a  light-quantum  appearing  in  one  or  the  other  of  the  counting 
chambers,  there  is  no  probability  of  two  appearing  simultaneously. 

At  present  the  general  theory  of  the  wave  function  in  many-dimensional 
space  necessarily  involves  the  abandonment  of  relativity.11  One  might, 
perhaps,  be  able  to  bring  relativity  into  the  general  quantum  theory  in 
the  way  Pauli  has  mentioned  of  quantising  3-dimensional  waves,  but  this 
would  not  lead  to  greater  Anschaulichkeit12  in  the  explanation  of  results 
such  as  Bothe's. 

I  shall  now  show  how  Schrodinger's  expression  for  the  electric  density 
appears  naturally  in  the  matrix  theory.  This  will  show  the  exact  signi- 
fication of  this  density  and  the  limitations  which  must  be  imposed  on 
its  use.  Consider  an  electron  moving  in  an  arbitrary  field,  such  as  that 
of  an  H  atom.  Its  coordinates  x,y,z  will  be  matrices.  Divide  the  space 
up  into  a  number  of  cells,  and  form  that  function  of  x,  y,  z  that  is  equal 
to  1  when  the  electron  is  in  a  given  cell  and  0  otherwise.  This  function 
of  the  matrices  x,  y,  z  will  also  be  a  matrixQ  There  is  one  such  matrix 
for  each  cell  whose  matrix  elements  will  be  functions  of  the  coordinates 
a,  b,  c  of  the  cell,  so  that  it  can  be  written  A(a,  b,  c). 

Each  of  these  matrices  represents  a  quantity  that  if  measured  experi- 
mentally must  have  either  the  value  0  or  1.  Hence  each  of  these  matrices 
has  the  characteristic  values  0  and  1  and  no  others.  If  one  takes  the  two 
matrices  A(a,b,c)  and  A(a' ,b',c'),  one  sees  that  they  must  commute,13 
since  one  can  give  a  numerical  value  to  both  simultaneously;  for  example, 
if  the  electron  is  known  to  be  in  the  cell  a,  b,  c,  it  will  certainly  not  be  in 
the  cell  a',  b',  c',  so  that  if  one  gives  the  numerical  value  1  to  A(a,  b,  c), 
one  must  at  the  same  time  give  the  numerical  value  0  to  A(a',  b' ,  c'). 

We  can  transform  each  of  the  matrices  A  into  a  diagonal  matrix  A* 

a  The  published  version  has:  'Divide  the  space  up  into  a  large  number  of  small  cells, 
and  consider  the  function  of  three  variables  f,  t],  £  that  is  equal  to  1  when  the 
point  §,  V>  C  is  m  a  given  cell  and  equal  to  0  when  the  point  is  elsewhere.  This 
function,  applied  to  the  matrices  x,  y,  z,  gives  another  matrix'  (eds.). 


492 


General  discussion 


by  a  transformation1   of  the  type 

A*  =  BAB'1. 

Since  all  the  matrices  A(a,  b,  c)  commute,15  they  can  be  transformed 
simultaneously  into  diagonal  matrices  by  a  transformation  of  this  type. 
The  diagonal  elements  of  each  matrix  A*  (a,  b,  c)  are  its  characteristic 
values,  which  are  the  same  as  the  characteristic  values  of  A(a,  b,  c),  that 
is,  0  and  1. 

Further,  no  two  A*  matrices,  such  as  A*(a,  b,  c)  [and]  A*(a',  b',  c'), 
can  both  have  1  for  the  same  diagonal  element,  as  a  simple  argument 
shows  that  A*  (a,  b,  c)+A*(a',  b',  c')  must  also  have  only  the  characteristic 
values  0  and  1.  We  can  without  loss  of  generality  assume  that  each  A* 
has  just  one  diagonal  element  equal  to  1  and  all  the  others  zero.  By 
transforming  back,  by  means  of  the  formula 

A(a,b,c)  =  B-1A*(a,b,c)B  , 

we  now  find  that  the  matrix  elements  of  A(a,  b,  c)  are  of  the  form 

A(a,b,c)mn  =  B^Bn  , 

i.e.  a  function  of  the  row  multiplied  by  a  function  of  the  column. 

It  should  be  observed  that  the  proof  of  this  result  is  quite  indepen- 
dent of  equations  of  motion  and  quantum  conditions.  If  we  take  these 
into  account,  we  find  that  -B"1  and  Bn  are  apart  from  constants  just 
Schrodinger's  eigenfunctions  ipm  and  ipn  at  the  point  a,  b,  c. 

Thus  Schrodinger's  density  function  ■ipm(x,y,  z)ipm(x,y,  z)  is  a16  dia- 
gonal element  of  the  matrix  A  referring  to  a  cell  about  the  point  x,  y,  z. 
The  true  quantum  expression  for  the  density  is  the  whole  matrix.  Its 
diagonal  elements  give  only  the  average  density,  and  must  not  be  used 
when  the  density  is  to  be  multiplied  by  a  dynamical  variable  represented 
by  a  matrix. 

I  should  now  like  to  express  my  views  on  determinism  and  the  nature  of 
the  numbers  appearing  in  the  calculations  of  the  quantum  theory,  as  they 
appear  to  me  after  thinking  over  Mr  Bohr's  remarks  of  yesterday.17  In  the 
classical  theory  one  starts  from  certain  numbers  describing  completely 
the  initial  state  of  the  system,  and  deduces  other  numbers  that  describe 
completely  the  final  state.  This  deterministic  theory  applies  only  to  an 
isolated  system. 

But,  as  Professor  Bohr  has  pointed  out,  an  isolated  system  is  by 
definition  unobservable.  One  can  observe  the  system  only  by  disturbing 
it  and  observing  its  reaction  to  the  disturbance.  Now  since  physics  is 


Causality,  determinism,  probability 


493 


concerned  only  with  observable  quantities  the  deterministic  classical 
theory  is  untenable.18 

In  the  quantum  theory  one  also  begins  with  certain  numbers  and 
deduces  others  from  them.  Let  us  inquire  into  the  distinguishing  cha- 
racteristics19 of  these  two  sets  of  numbers.  The  disturbances  that  an 
experimenter  applies  to  a  system  to  observe  it  are  directly  under  his 
control,  and  are  acts  of  freewill  by  him.  It  is  only  the  numbers  that 
describe  these  acts  of  freewill  that  can  be  taken  as  initial  numbers  for  a 
calculation  in  the  quantum  theory.  Other  numbers  describing  the  initial 
state  of  the  system  are  inherently  unobservable,  and  do20  not  appear  in 
the  quantum  theoretical  treatment. 

Let  us  now  consider  the  final  numbers  obtained  as  the  result  of  an 
experiment.  It  is  essential  that  the  result  of  an  experiment  shall  be  a 
permanent  record.  The  numbers  that  describe  such  a  result  must  help  to 
not  only  describe  the  state  of  the  world  at  the  instant  the  experiment  is 
ended,  but  also  help  to  describe  the  state  of  the  world  at  any  subsequent 
time.  These  numbers  describe  what  is  common  to  all  the  events  in  a 
certain  chain  of  causally  connected  events,  extending  indefinitely  into 
the  future. 

Take  as  an  example  a  Wilson  cloud  expansion  experiment.  The  causal 
chain  here  consists  of  the  formation  of  drops  of  water  round  ions,  the 
scattering  of  light  by  these  drops  of  water,  and  the  action  of  this  light  on 
a  photographic  plate,  where  it  leaves  a  permanent  record.  The  numbers 
that  form  the  result  of  the  experiment  describe  all  of  the  events  in  this 
chain  equally  well  and  help  to  describe  the  state  of  the  world  at  any  time 
after  the  chain  began. 

One  could  perhaps  extend  the  chain  further  into  the  past.21  In  the 
example  one  could,  perhaps,  ascribe  the  formation  of  the  ions  to  a 
/3-particle,  so  that  the  result  of  the  experiment  would  be  numbers  de- 
scribing the  track  of  a  /3-particle.  In  general  one  tries  with  the  help 
of  theoretical  considerations  to  extend  the  chain  as  far  back  into  the 
past  as  possible,  in  order  that  the  numbers  obtained  as  the  result  of 
the  experiment  may  apply  as  directly  as  possible  to  the  process  under 
investigation.22 

This  view  of  the  nature  of  the  results  of  experiments  fits  in  very  well 
with  the  new  quantum  mechanics.  According  to  quantum  mechanics  the 
state  of  the  world  at  any  time  is  describable  by  a  wave  function  tp, 
which  normally  varies  according  to  a  causal  law,  so  that  its  initial  value 
determines  its  value  at  any  later  time.  It  may  however  happen  that  at  a 


494 


General  discussion 


certain  time  t\ ,  ip  can  be  expanded  in  the  form 

ip  =  X!  Cn^n  > 

n 

where  the  i/Vi's  are  wave  functions  of  such  a  nature  that  they  cannot 
interfere  with  one  another  at  any  time  subsequent  to  t\.  If  such  is  the 
case,  then  the  world  at  times  later  than  t\  will  be  described  not  by  ip  but 
by  one  of  the  VVi's.  The  particular  ipn  that  it  shall  be  must  be  regarded 
as  chosen  by  nature.23  One  may  say  that  nature  chooses  which  tpn  it  is 
to  be,  as  the  only  information  given  by  the  theory  is  that  the  probability 
of  any  ipn  being  chosen  is  |c„|2.24  The  value  of  the  suffix  n  that  labels 
the  particular  ipn  chosen  may  be  the  result  of  an  experiment,  and  the 
result  of  an  experiment  must  always  be  such  a  number.  It  is  a  number 
describing  an  irrevocable  choice  of  nature,  which  must  affect  the  whole 
of  the  future  course  of  eventsB 

As  an  example  take  the  case  of  a  simple  collision  problem.  The  wave 
packet  representing  the  incident  electron  gets  scattered  in  all  directions. 
One  must  take  for  the  wave  function  after  the  process  not  the  whole 
scattered  wave,  but  once  again  a  wave  packet  moving  in  a  definite 
direction.  From  the  results  of  an  experiment,  by  tracing  back  a  chain 
of  causally  connected  events  one  could  determine  in  which  direction  the 
electron  was  scattered  and  one  would  thus  infer  that  nature  had  chosen 
this  direction.  If,  now,  one  arranged  a  mirror  to  reflect  the  electron 
wave  scattered  in  one  direction  d\  so  as  to  make  it  interfere  with  the 
electron  wave  scattered  in  another  direction  cfe,  one  would  not  be  able 
to  distinguish  between  the  case  when  the  electron  is  scattered  in  the 
direction  c?2  and  when  it  is  scattered  in  the  direction  d\  and  reflected 
back  into  c?2  •  One  would  then  not  be  able  to  trace  back  the  chain  of  causal 
events  so  far,  and  one  would  not  be  able  to  say  that  nature  had  chosen 
a  direction  as  soon  as  the  collision  occurred,  but  only  [that]  at  a  later 
time  nature  chose  where  the  electron  should  appear.  The25  interference 
between  the  tpn's  compels  nature  to  postpone  her  choice. 

a  The  last  two  sentences  appear  differently  in  the  published  version:  'The  choice, 
once  made,  is  irrevocable  and  will  affect  the  whole  future  state  of  the  world.  The 
value  of  n  chosen  by  nature  can  be  determined  by  experiment  and  the  results  of 
all  experiments  are  numbers  describing  such  choices  of  nature'. 
Dirac's  notes  contain  a  similar  variant  written  in  the  margin:  'The  value  of  n 
chosen  by  nature  may  be  determined  by  experiment.  The  result  of  every  experiment 
consists  of  numbers  determining  one  of  these  choices  of  nature,  and  is  permanent 
since  such  a  choice  is  irrevocable  and  affects  the  whole  future  state  of  the  world' 
(eds.). 


Causality,  determinism,  probability  495 

Mr  Bohr@  —  Quite  see  that  one  must  go  into  details  of  pictures, 
if  one  wants  to  control  or  illustrate  general  statements.  I  think  still 
that  you  may  simpler  put  it  in  my  way.  Just  this  distinction  between 
observation  and  definition  allows  to  let  the  quantum  mechanics  appear 
as  generalisation.  What  does  mean:  get  records  which  do  not  allow  to 
work  backwards.  Even  if  we  took  all  molecules  in  photographic  plate  one 
would  have  closed  system.  If  we  tell  of  a  record  we  give  up  definition  of 
plate.  Whole  point  lies  in  that  by  observation  we  introduce  something 
which  does  not  allow  to  go  on. 

Mr  Born.  —  I  should  like  to  point  out,  with  regard  to  the  considera- 
tions of  Mr  Dirac,  that  they  seem  closely  related  to  the  ideas  expressed 
in  a  paper  by  my  collaborator  J.26  von  Neumann,  which  will  appear 
shortly.  The  author  of  this  paper  shows  that  quantum  mechanics  can  be 
built  up  using  the  ordinary  probability  calculus,  starting  from  a  small 
number  of  formal  hypotheses;  the  probability  amplitudes  and  the  law  of 
their  composition  do  not  really  play  a  role  there. 

Mr  Kramers.  —  I  think  the  most  elegant  way  to  arrive  at  the  results 
of  Mr  Dirac's  considerations  is  given  to  us  by  the  methods  he  presented 
in  his  memoir  in  the  Proc.  Roy.  Soc.,  ser.  A,  vol.  113,  p.  621.  Let  us 
consider  a  function  of  the  coordinates  q\,  92,93  of  an  electron,  that  is 
equal  to  1  when  the  point  considered  is  situated  in  the  interior  of  a 
certain  volume  V  of  space  and  equal  to  zero  for  every  exterior  point,  and 
let  us  represent  by  ip(q,  a)  and  tp(a,q)  the  transformation  functions  that 
allow  us  to  transform  a  physical  quantity  F,  whose  form  is  known  as  a 
matrix  (q1,  q"),  into  a  matrix  (a',  a"),  cti,  Q-i,  013  being  the  first  integrals 
of  the  equation  of  motion.  The  function  /,  written  as  a  matrix  (q1,  q"), 
will  then  take  the  form  f(q')5(q'  —  q"),  where  S(q'  —  q" )  represents 
Dirac's  unit  matrix.  As  a  matrix  (a1,  a"),  f  will  then  take  the  form 

/(«',  a")  =  J  $(af,  q')dq'f{q')5(q'  -  q")dq"i>{q",  a") 

=  f  ^(a',q')dq'^(q',a")  , 
Jv 

the  integral  having  to  be  extended  over  the  whole  of  the  considered 
volume.  The  diagonal  terms  of  /(a',  a"),  which  may  be  written  in  the 

a  Again,  these  remarks  do  not  appear  in  the  published  French  and  we  have 
reproduced  them  from  Bohr's  Collected  Works  (Bohr  1985,  p.  105)  (eds.). 


496 


General  discussion 


form 

/(<*)=/  inpdq  , 

will  directly  represent,  in  accordance  with  Dirac's  interpretation  of  the 
matrices,  the  probability  that,  for  a  state  of  the  system  characterised  by 
given  values  of  a,  the  coordinates  of  the  electron  are  those  of  a  point 
situated  in  the  interior  of  V.  As  ip  is  nothing  other  than  the  solution  of 
Schrodinger's  wave  equation,  we  arrive  at  once  at  the  interpretation  of 
the  expression  ipip  under  discussion. 

Mr  Heisenberg.  —  I  do  not  agree  with  Mr  Dirac  when  he  says 
that,  in  the  described  experiment,  nature  makes  a  choice.  Even  if  you 
place  yourself  very  far  away  from  your  scattering  material,  and  if  you 
measure  after  a  very  long  time,  you  are  able  to  obtain  interference  by 
taking  two  mirrors.  If  nature  had  made  a  choice,  it  would  be  difficult 
to  imagine  how  the  interference  is  produced.  Evidently,  we  say  that  this 
choice  of  nature  can  never  be  known  before  the  decisive  experiment 
has  been  done;  for  this  reason,  we  can  make  no  real  objection  to  this 
choice,  because  the  expression  'nature  makes  a  choice'  then  implies  no 
physical  observation.  I  should  rather  say,  as  I  did  in  my  last  paper, 
that  the  observer  himself  makes  the  choice@  because  it  is  only  at  the 
moment  where  the  observation  is  made  that  the  'choice'  has  become  a 
physical  reality  and  that  the  phase  relationship  in  the  waves,  the  power 
of  interference,  is  destroyed. 

Mr  Lorentz.  —  There  is  then,  it  seems  to  me,  a  fundamental  diffe- 
rence of  opinion  on  the  subject  of  the  meaning  of  these  choices  made  by 
nature. 

To  admit  the  possibility  that  nature  makes  a  choice  means,  I  think, 
that  it  is  impossible  for  us  to  know  in  advance  how  phenomena  will 
take  place  in  the  future.  It  is  then  indeterminism  that  you  wish  to 
erect  as  a  principle.  According  to  you  there  are  events  that  we  cannot 
predict,  whereas  until  now  we  have  always  assumed  the  possibility  of 
these  predictions. 

a  From  Heisenberg's  publication  record,  it  is  clear  that  he  is  here  referring  to  his 
uncertainty  paper,  which  had  appeared  in  May  1927.  There  we  find  the  statement 
that  'all  perceiving  is  a  choice  from  a  plenitude  of  possibilities'  (Heisenberg  1927, 
p.  197).  When  Heisenberg  says,  in  his  above  comment  on  Dirac,  that  the  observer 
'makes'  the  choice,  he  seems  to  mean  this  in  the  sense  of  the  observer  bringing 
about  the  choice  (eds.). 


Photons 


497 


Photons 

Mr  Kramers.  —  During  the  discussion  of  Mr  de  Broglie's  report,  Mr 
Brillouin  explained  to  us  how  radiation  pressure  is  exerted  in  the  case 
of  interference  and  that  one  must  assume  an  auxiliary  stress.  But  how 
is  radiation  pressure  exerted  in  the  case  where  it  is  so  weak  that  there 
is  only  one  photon  in  the  interference  zone?  And  how  does  one  obtain 
the  auxiliary  tensor  in  this  case? 

Mr  DE  Broglie.  —  The  proof  of  the  existence  of  these  stresses  can 
be  made  only  if  one  considers  a  cloud  of  photons. 

Mr  Kramers.  —  And  if  there  is  only  one  photon,  how  can  one 
account  for  the  sudden  change  of  momentum  suffered  by  the  reflecting 
object? 

Mr  Brillouin.  —  No  theory  currently  gives  the  answer  to  Mr  Kra- 
mers' question. 

Mr  Kramers.  —  No  doubt  one  would  have  to  imagine  a  complicated 
mechanism,  that  cannot  be  derived  from  the  electromagnetic  theory  of 
waves? 

Mr  de  Broglie.  —  The  dualist  representation  by  corpuscles  and  as- 
sociated waves  does  not  constitute  a  definitive  picture  of  the  phenomena. 
It  does  not  allow  one  to  predict  the  pressures  exerted  on  the  different 
points  of  a  mirror  during  the  reflection  of  a  single  photon.  It  gives  only 
the  mean  value  of  the  pressure  during  the  reflection  of  a  cloud  of  photons. 

Mr  Kramers.  —  What  advantage  do  you  see  in  giving  a  precise  value 
to  the  velocity  v  of  the  photons? 

Mr  de  Broglie.  —  This  allows  one  to  imagine  the  trajectory  followed 
by  the  photons  and  to  specify  the  meaning  of  these  entities;  one  can  thus 
consider  the  photon  as  a  material  point  having  a  position  and  a  velocity. 

Mr  Kramers.  —  I  do  not  very  well  see,  for  my  part,  the  advantage 
that  there  is,  for  the  description  of  experiments,  in  making  a  picture 
where  the  photons  travel  along  well-defined  trajectories. 


498 


General  discussion 


Mr  Einstein.  —  During  reflection  on  a  mirror,  Mr  L.  de  Broglie 
assumes  that  the  photons  move  parallel  to  the  mirror  with  a  speed  c  sin  6; 
but  what  happens  if  the  incidence  is  normal?  Do  the  photons  then  have 
zero  speed,  as  required  by  the  formula  (9  =  0)? 

Mr  PlCCARD.  —  Yes.  In  the  case  of  reflection,  one  must  assume  that 
the  component  of  the  velocity  of  the  photons  parallel  to  the  mirror  is 
constant.  In  the  interference  zone,  the  component  normal  to  the  mirror 
disappears.  The  more  the  incidence  increases,  the  more  the  photons 
are  slowed  down.  One  thus  indeed  arrives  at  stationary  photons  in  the 
limiting  case  of  normal  incidenceEl 

Mr  Langevin.  —  In  this  way  then,  in  the  interference  zone,  the 
photons  no  longer  have  the  speed  of  light;  they  do  not  then  always  have 
the  speed  c? 

Mr  de  Broglie.  —  No,  in  my  theory  the  speed  of  photons  is  equal 
to  c  only  outside  any  interference  zone,  when  the  radiation  propagates 
freely  in  the  vacuum.  As  soon  as  there  are  interference  phenomena,  the 
speed  of  the  photons  becomes  smaller  than  c. 

Mr  De  Donder.  —  I  should  like  to  show  how  the  research  of  Mr  L. 
de  Broglie  is  related  to  mine  on  some  points. 

By  identifying  the  ten  equations  of  the  gravitational  field  and  the 
four  equations  of  the  electromagnetic  field  with  the  fourteen  equations 
of  the  wave  mechanics  of  L.  Rosenfeld,  I  have  obtained^  a  principle  of 
correspondence  that  clarifies  and  generalises  that  of  O.  Klein@ 

In  my  principle  of  correspondence,  there  appear  the  quantum  current 
and  the  quantum  tensor.  I  will  give  the  formulas  for  them  later  on;  let 
it  suffice  to  remark  now  that  the  example  of  correspondence  that  Mr  de 
Broglie  has  expounded  is  in  harmony  with  my  principle. 

Mr  L.  RosenfelcH  has  given  another  example.  Here,  the  mass  is  con- 
served and,  moreover,  one  resorts  to  the  quantum  current.  We  add  that 

a  Note  that  here  the  wave  train  is  tacitly  assumed  to  be  limited  longitudinally.  Cf. 

our  discussion  of  the  de  Broglie-Pauli  encounter,  section [10. 21  (eds.). 
b  Bull.  Ac.  Roy.  de  Belgique,  CI.  des  Sc.    (5)  XIII,  ns.  8-9,  session  of  2  August 

1927,  504-9.  See  esp.  equations  (5)  and  (8). 
c  Zeitschr.  f.  Phys.  41,  n.  617  (1927).  See  esp.  equations  (18),  p.  414. 
d  L.  Rosenfeld,  'L'univers  a  cinq  dimensions  et  la  mecanique  ondulatoire  (quatrieme 

communication)',  Bull.  Ac.  Roy.  Belg.,   CI.  des  Sc.,  October  1927.  See  esp. 

paragraphs  4  and  5. 


Photons 


499 


this  model  of  quantisation  is  also  included,  as  a  particular  case,  in  our 
principle  of  correspondence. 

Mr  Lorentz  has  remarked,  with  some  surprise,  that  the  continuity 
equation  for  charge  is  preserved  in  Mr  de  Broglie's  example.  Thanks 
to  our  principle  of  correspondence,  and  to  Rosenfeld's  compatibility27 
theorem,  one  can  show  that  it  will  always  be  so  for  the  total  current 
(including  the  quantum  current)  and  for  the  theorem  of  energy  and 
momentum.  The  four  equations  that  express  this  last  theorem  are  satis- 
fied by  virtue  of  the  two  generalised  quantum  equations  of  de  Broglie- 
Schrodinger. 

One  further  small  remark,  to  end  with.  Mr  de  Broglie  said  that  rela- 
tivistic  systems  do  not  exist  yet.  I  have  given  the  theory  of  continuous 
or  holonomic  systems  E  But  Mr  de  Broglie  gives  another  meaning  to 
the  word  system;  he  has  in  mind  interacting  systems,  such  as  the  Bohr 
atom,  the  system  of  three  bodies,  etc.  I  have  remarked  recenthJH  that  the 
quantisation  of  these  systems  should  be  done  by  means  of  a  (ds)2  taken 
in  a  configuration  space  with  An  dimensions,  n  denoting  the  number  of 
particles.  In  a  paper  not  yet  published,  I  have  studied  particular  systems 
called  additive. 

Mr  Lorentz.  —  The  stresses  of  which  you  speak  and  which  you  call 
quantum,  are  they  those  of  Maxwell? 

Mr  De  Donder.  —  Our  quantum  stresses  must  contain  the  Maxwell 
stresses  as  a  particular  case;  this  results  from  the  fact  that  our  principle 
of  correspondence  is  derived  (in  part,  at  least)  from  Maxwell's  equations, 
and  from  the  fact  that  these  quantum  stresses  here  formally  play  the 
same  role  as  the  stresses  of  electrostrictior@  in  Einsteinian  Gravity.  Let 
us  recall,  on  this  subject,  that  our  principle  of  correspondence  is  also 
derived  from  the  fundamental  equations  of  Einsteinian  Gravity.  Mr  de 
Broglie  has,  by  means  of  his  calculations,  thus  recovered  the  stresses  of 
radiation. 


a  C.  R.  Acad.  Sc.  Paris,  21  February  1927,  and  Bull.  Ac.  Roy.  Belgique,  CI.  des 
Sc.,  7  March  1927. 

b  Bull.  Ac.  Roy.  Belgique,  CI.  des  Sc.,  2  August  1927.  See  esp.  form.  (22). 

c  For  more  details,  see  our  Note:  'L'electrostriction  deduite  de  la  gravifique 

einsteinienne',  Bull.  Ac.  Roy.  Belgique,  CI.  des  Sc.,  session  of  9  October  1926, 

673-8. 


500 


General  discussion 


Photons  and  electrons 

Mr  Langevin  makes  a  comparison  between  the  old  and  modern  stati- 
stics. 

Formerly,  one  decomposed  the  phase  space  into  cells,  and  one  evalua- 
ted the  number  of  representative  points  attributing  an  individuality  to 
each  constituent  of  the  system. 

It  seems  today  that  one  must  modify  this  method  by  suppressing  the 
individuality  of  the  constituents  of  the  system,  and  substituting  instead 
the  individuality  of  the  states  of  motion.  By  assuming  that  any  number 
of  constituents  of  the  system  can  have  the  same  state  of  motion,  one 
obtains  the  statistics  of  Bose-Einstein. 

One  obtains  a  third  statistics,  that  of  Pauli-Fermi-Dirac,28  by  assu- 
ming that  there  can  be  only  a  single  representative  point  in  each  cell  of 
phase  space. 

The  new  type  of  representation  seems  more  appropriate  to  the  con- 
ception of  photons  and  particles:  since  one  attributes  a  complete  identity 
of  nature  to  them,  it  appears  appropriate  to  not  insist  on  their  indivi- 
duality, but  to  attribute  an  individuality  to  the  states  of  motion. 

In  the  report  of  Messrs  Born  and  Heisenberg,  I  see  that  it  results 
from  quantum  mechanics  that  the  statistics  of  Bose-Einstein  is  suitable 
for  molecules,  that  of  Pauli-Dirac  for  electrons  and  protons.  This  means 
that  for  photons29  and  molecules  there  is  superposition,  while  for  pro- 
tons and  electrons  there  is  impenetrability.  Material  particles  are  then 
distinguished  from  photons30  by  their  impenetrability.31 

Mr  Heisenberg.  —  There  is  no  reason,  in  quantum  mechanics,  to 
prefer  one  statistics  to  another.  One  may  always  use  different  statistics, 
which  can  be  considered  as  complete  solutions  of  the  problem  of  quantum 
mechanics.  In  the  current  state  of  the  theory,  the  question  of  interaction 
has  nothing  to  do  with  the  question  of  statistics. 

We  feel  nevertheless  that  Einstein-Bose  statistics  could  be  the  more 
suitable  for  light  quanta,  Fermi-Dirac  statistics  for  positive  and  negative 
electrons^  The  statistics  could  be  connected  with  the  difference  between 
radiation  and  matter,  as  Mr  Bohr  has  pointed  out.  But  it  is  difficult  to 
establish  a  link  between  this  question  and  the  problem  of  interaction.  I 
shall  simply  mention  the  difficulty  created  by  electron  spin. 

Mr  Kramers  reminds  us  of  Dirac's  research  on  statistics,  which 
a  That  is,  for  protons  and  electrons  (eds.). 


Photons  and  electrons 


501 


has  shown  that  Bose-Einstein  statistics  can  be  expressed  in  an  entirely 
different  manner.  The  statistics  of  photons,  for  example,  is  obtained  by 
considering  a  cavity  filled  with  blackbody  radiation  as  a  system  having 
an  infinity  of  degrees  of  freedom.  If  one  quantises  this  system  according 
to  the  rules  of  quantum  mechanics  and  applies  Boltzmann  statistics, 
one  arrives  at  Planck's  formula,  which  is  equivalent  to  Bose-Einstein 
statistics  applied  to  photons. 

Jordan  has  shown  that  a  formal  modification  of  Dirac's  method  allows 
one  to  arrive  equally  at  a  statistical  distribution  that  is  equivalent  to 
Fermi  statistics.  This  method  is  suggested  by  Pauli's  exclusion  principle. 

Mr  DiracE  points  out  that  this  modification,  considered  from  a 
general  point  of  view,  is  quite  artificial.  Fermi  statistics  is  not  established 
on  exactly  the  same  basis  as  Einstein-Bose  statistics,  since  the  natural 
method  of  quantisation  for  waves  leads  precisely  to  the  latter  statistics 
for  the  particles  associated  with  the  waves.  To  obtain  Fermi  statistics, 
Jordan  had  to  use  an  unusual  method  of  quantisation  for  waves,  chosen 
specially  so  as  to  give  the  desired  result.  There  are  mathematical  errors 
in  the  work  of  Jordan  that  have  not  yet  been  redressed. 

Mr  Kramers.  —  I  willingly  grant  that  Jordan's  treatment  does  not 
seem  as  natural  as  the  manner  by  which  Mr  Dirac  quantises  the  solution 
of  the  Schrodinger  equation.  However,  we  do  not  yet  understand  why 
nature  requires  this  quantisation,  and  we  can  hope  that  one  day  we  will 
find  the  deeper  reason  for  why  it  is  necessary  to  quantise  in  one  way  in 
one  case  and  in  another  way  in  the  other. 

Mr  Born.  —  An  essential  difference  between  Debye's  old  theory,  in 
which  the  characteristic  vibrations  of  the  blackbody  cavity  are  treated 
like  Planck  oscillators,  and  the  new  theory  is  this,  that  both  yield  quite 
exactly  Planck's  radiation  formula  (for  the  mean  density  of  radiation), 
but  that  the  old  theory  leads  to  inexact  values  for  the  local  fluctuations 
of  radiation,  while  the  new  theory  gives  these  values  exactly. 

Mr  Heisenberg.  —  According  to  the  experiments,  protons  and  elec- 
trons both  have  an  angular  momentum  and  obey  the  laws  of  the  stati- 
stics of  Fermi-Dirac;  these  two  points  seem  to  be  related.  If  one  takes 
two  particles  together,  if  one  asks,  for  example,  which  statistics  one 

a  On  this  criticism  by  Dirac,  cf.  Kragh  (1990,  pp.  128-30)  (eds.). 


502 


General  discussion 


must  apply  to  a  gas  made  up  of  atoms  of  hydrogen,  one  finds  that  the 
statistics  of  Bose-Einstein  is  the  right  one,  because  by  permuting  two 
H  atoms,  we  permute  one  positive  electron  and  one  negative  electron^ 
so  that  we  change  the  sign  of  the  Schrodinger  function  twice.  In  other 
words,  Bose-Einstein  statistics  is  valid  for  all  gases  made  up  of  neutral 
molecules,  or  more  generally,  composed  of  systems  whose  charge  is  an 
even  multiple  of  e.  If  the  charge  of  the  system  is  an  odd  multiple  of  e, 
the  statistics  of  Fermi-Dirac  applies  to  a  collection  of  these  systems. 

The  He  nucleus  does  not  rotate  and  a  collection  of  He  nuclei  obeys 
the  laws  of  Bose-Einstein  statistics. 

Mr  Fowler  asks  if  the  fine  details  of  the  structure  of  the  bands  of 
helium  agree  better  with  the  idea  that  we  have  only  symmetric  states 
of  rotation  of  the  nuclei  of  helium  than  with  the  idea  that  we  have  only 
antisymmetric  states. 

Mr  Heisenberg.  —  In  the  bands  of  helium,  the  fact  that  each  second 
line  disappears  teaches  us  that  the  He  nucleus  is  not  endowed  with  a 
spinning  motion.  But  it  is  not  yet  possible  to  decide  experimentally, 
on  the  basis  of  these  bands,  if  the  statistics  of  Bose-Einstein  or  that  of 
Fermi-Dirac  must  be  applied  to  the  nucleus  of  He. 

Mr  Schrodinger.  —  You  have  spoken  of  experimental  evidence  in 
favour  of  the  hypothesis  that  the  proton  is  endowed  with  a  spinning 
motion  just  like  the  electron,  and  that  protons  obey  the  statistical  law 
of  Fermi-Dirac.  What  evidence  are  you  alluding  to? 

Mr  Heisenberg.  —  The  experimental  evidence  is  provided  by  the 
work  of  Dennisor0  on  the  specific  heat  of  the  hydrogen  molecule,  work 
which  is  based  on  Hund's  research  concerning  the  band  spectra  of  hy- 
drogen. 

Hund  found  good  agreement  between  his  theoretical  scheme  and  the 
experimental  work  of  Dilke,  Hopfield  and  Richardson,  by  means  of  the 
hypotheses  mentioned  by  Mr  Schrodinger.  But  for  the  specific  heat,  he 
found  a  curve  very  different  from  the  experimental  curve.  The  experi- 
mental curve  of  the  specific  heat  seemed  rather  to  speak  in  favour  of 
Bose-Einstein  statistics.  But  the  difficulty  was  elucidated  in  the  paper 
by  Dennison,  who  showed  that  the  systems  of  'symmetric'  and  'anti- 

a  That  is,  we  permute  the  two  protons,  and  also  the  two  electrons  (eds.). 
a  Proc.  Roy.  Soc.  A  114  (1927),  483. 


Photons  and  electrons 


503 


symmetric'  terms  (with  regard  to  protons)  do  not  combine  in  the  time 
necessary  to  carry  out  the  experiment.  At  low  temperature,  a  transition 
takes  place  about  every  three  months.  The  ratio  of  statistical  weights 
of  the  systems  of  symmetric  and  antisymmetric  terms  is  1  :  3,  as  in 
the  helium  atom.  But  at  low  temperatures  the  specific  heat  must  be 
calculated  as  if  one  had  a  mixture  of  two  gases,  an  'ortho'  gas  and  a 
'para'  gas.  If  one  wished  to  perform  experiments  on  the  specific  heat 
with  a  gas  of  hydrogen,  kept  at  low  temperature  for  several  months,  the 
result  would  be  totally  different  from  the  ordinary  result. 

Mr  Ehrenfest  wishes  to  formulate  a  question  that  has  some  relation 
to  the  recent  experiments  by  Mr  Langmuir  on  the  disordered  motion  of 
electrons  in  the  flow  of  electricity  through  a  gas. 

In  the  well-known  Pauli  exclusion  (Pauliverbot) ,  one  introduces  (at 
least  in  the  language  of  the  old  quantum  theory)  a  particular  incompati- 
bility relation  between  the  quantum  motions  of  the  different  particles  of 
a  single  system,  without  speaking  explicitly  of  the  role  possibly  played 
by  the  forces  acting  between  these  particles.  Now,  suppose  that  through 
a  small  opening  one  allows  particles  that,  so  to  speak,  do  not  exert  forces 
on  each  other,  to  pass  from  a  large  space  into  a  small  box  bounded  by  qui- 
te rigid  walls  with  a  complicated  shape,  so  that  the  particles  encounter 
the  opening  and  leave  the  box  only  at  the  end  of  a  sufficiently  long  time. 
Before  entering  the  box,  if  the  particles  have  almost  no  motion  relative 
to  one  another,  the  Pauli  exclusion  intervenes.  After  their  exit,  will  they 
have  very  different  energies,  independently  of  the  weakness  of  the  mutual 
action  between  the  particles?  Or  else  what  role  do  these  forces  play  in  the 
production  of  Pauli's  incompatibility  (choice  of  antisymmetric  solutions 
of  the  wave  equation)? 

Mr  Heisenberg.  —  The  difficulty  with  Mr  Ehrenfest's  experiment  is 
the  following:  the  two  electrons  must  have  different  energies.  If  the  energy 
of  interaction  of  the  two  electrons  is  very  small,  the  time  t\  required  for 
the  electrons  to  exchange  an  appreciable  amount  of  energy  is  very  long. 
But  to  find  experimentally  which  state,  symmetric  or  antisymmetric, 
the  system  of  the  two  electrons  in  the  box  is  in,  we  need  a  certain  time 
T2  which  is  at  least  ~  if  hv  is  the  [energy]  difference  between  the 
symmetric  and  antisymmetric  states.  Consequently,  t\  ~  T2  and  the 
difficulty  disappears. 

Mr  Richardson.  —  The  evidence  for  a  nuclear  spin  is  much  more 


504 


General  discussion 


complete  than  Mr  Heisenberg  has  just  said.  I  have  recently  had  occasion 
to  classify  a  large  number  of  lines  in  the  visible  bands  of  the  spectrum 
of  the  H2  molecule.  One  of  the  characteristic  features  of  this  spectrum  is 
a  rather  pronounced  alternation  in  the  intensity  of  the  successive  lines. 
The  intensities  of  the  lines  of  this  spectrum  were  recently  measured  by 
MacLennan,  Grayson-Smith  and  Collins.  Unfortunately,  a  large  number 
of  these  lines  overlap  with  each  other,  so  that  the  intensity  measurements 
must  be  accepted  only  with  reservations. 

But  nevertheless,  I  think  one  can  say,  without  fear  of  being  mistaken, 
that  all  the  bands  that  are  sufficiently  well-formed  and  sufficiently  free  of 
influences  of  the  lines  on  each  other  (so  that  one  can  have  confidence  in 
the  intensity  measurements)  have  lines,  generally  numbered  1,  3,  5, 
that  are  intrinsically  three  times  more  intense  than  the  intermediate 
lines,  generally  numbered  2,  4,  6,  ... .  By  intrinsic  intensity,  I  mean  that 
which  one  obtains  after  having  taken  into  account  the  effects  on  the 
intensity  of  temperature  and  quantum  number  (and  also,  of  course,  the 
effects  of  overlap  with  other  lines,  where  it  is  possible  to  take  this  into 
account).  In  other  words,  I  wish  to  say  that  the  constant  c  of  the  intensity 
formula 


where  m  is  the  number  of  the  line  and  K  the  moment  of  inertia  of  the 
molecule,  is  three  times  bigger  for  the  odd-numbered  lines  than  for  the 
even-numbered  ones.  This  means  that  the  ratio  3  :  1  applies,  with  an 
accuracy  of  about  5%,  for  at  least  five  different  vibration  states  of  a 
three-electron  state  of  excitation.  It  also  applies  to  another  state,  which 
is  probably  3:P  if  the  others  are  33P.  It  is  also  shown,  but  in  a  less 
precise  way,  that  it  applies  to  two  different  vibration  states  of  a  state  of 
excitation  with  four  electrons. 

At  present,  then,  there  is  a  great  deal  of  experimental  evidence  that 
this  nuclear  spin  persists  through  the  different  states  of  excitation  of  the 
hydrogen  molecule. 

Mr  Langmuir.  —  The  question  has  often  been  raised  of  a  similarity 
in  the  relation  between  light  waves  and  photons  on  the  one  hand,  and  de 
Broglie  waves  and  electrons  on  the  other.  How  far  can  this  analogy  be 
developed?  There  are  many  remarkable  parallels,  but  also  I  should  like 
to  see  examined  if  there  are  no  fundamental  differences  between  these 
relations.  Thus,  for  example,  an  electron  is  characterised  by  a  constant 


Photons  and  electrons 


505 


charge.  Is  there  a  constant  property  of  the  photon  that  may  be  compared 
with  the  charge  of  the  electron?  The  speed  of  the  electron  is  variable; 
is  that  of  the  photon  also?  The  electromagnetic  theory  of  light  has 
suggested  a  multitude  of  experiments,  which  have  added  considerably  to 
our  knowledge.  The  wave  theory  of  the  electron  explains  the  beautiful 
results  of  Davisson  and  Germer.  Can  one  hope  that  this  theory  will  be 
as  fertile  in  experimental  suggestions  as  the  wave  theory  of  light  has 
been?32 

Mr  Ehrenfest.  —  When  one  examines  a  system  of  plane  waves  of 
elliptically  polarised  light,  placing  oneself  in  differently  moving  coordi- 
nate systems,  these  waves  show  the  same  degree  of  ellipticity  whatever 
system  one  places  oneself  in.  Passing  from  the  language  of  waves  to 
that  of  photons,  I  should  like  to  ask  if  one  must  attribute  an  elliptical 
polarisation  (linear  or  circular  in  the  limiting  cases)  to  each  photon? 
If  the  reply  is  affirmative,  in  view  of  the  invariance  of  the  degree  of 
ellipticity  in  relativity,  one  must  distinguish  as  many  species  of  photons 
as  there  are  degrees  of  ellipticity.  That  would  yield,  it  seems  to  me,  a 
new  difference  between  the  photon  and  the  spinning  electron.  If,  on  the 
other  hand,  one  wishes  above  all  to  retain  the  analogy  with  the  electron, 
as  far  as  I  can  see  one  comes  up  against  two  difficulties: 

1.  How  then  must  one  describe  linearly  polarised  light  in  the  language  of 
photons?  (It  is  instructive,  in  this  respect,  to  consider  the  way  in  which 
the  two  linearly  polarised  components,  emitted  perpendicularly  to  the 
magnetic  field  by  a  flame  showing  the  Zeeman  effect,  are  absorbed  by  a 
second  flame  placed  in  a  magnetic  field  with  antiparallel  orientation.) 

Mr  Zeeman,  to  whom  I  posed  the  question,  was  kind  enough  to  per- 
form the  experiment  about  a  year  ago,  and  he  was  able  to  notice  that 
the  absorption  is  the  same  in  parallel  and  antiparallel  fields,  as  one  could 
have  predicted,  in  fact,  by  considerations  of  continuity. 

2.  For  electrons,  which  move  always  with  a  speed  less  than  that  of 
light,  the  universality  of  the  spin  may  be  expressed  as  follows,  that 
one  transforms  the  corresponding  antisymmetric  tensor  into  a  system 
of  coordinates  carried  with  the  electron  in  its  translational  motion  ('at 
rest').  But  photons  always  move  with  the  speed  of  light! 

Mr  Compton.  —  Can  light  be  elliptically  polarised  when  the  photon 
has  an  angular  momentum? 


506 


General  discussion 


Mr  Ehrenfest.  —  Because  the  photons  move  with  the  speed  of 
light,  I  do  not  really  understand  what  it  means  when  one  says  that  each 
photon  has  a  universal  angular  momentum  just  like  an  electron. 

Allow  me  to  remind  you  of  yet  another  property  of  photons.  When 
two  photons  move  in  directions  that  are  not  exactly  the  same,  one  can 
say  quite  arbitrarily  that  one  of  the  photons  is  a  radio-photon  and  the 
other  a  7-ray  photon,  or  inversely.  That  depends  quite  simply  on  the 
moving  system  of  coordinates  to  which  one  refers  the  pair  of  photons. 

Mr  Lorentz.  —  Can  you  make  them  identical  by  such  a  transfor- 
mation? 

Mr  Ehrenfest.  —  Perfectly.  If  they  move  in  different  directions. 
One  can  then  give  them  the  same  colour  by  adopting  a  suitable  frame  of 
reference.  It  is  only  in  the  case  where  their  worldlines  are  exactly  parallel 
that  the  ratio  of  their  frequencies  remains  invariant. 

Mr  Pauli.  —  The  fact  that  the  spinning  electron  can  take  two  ori- 
entations in  the  field  allowed  by  the  quanta  seems  to  invite  us  at  first  to 
compare  it  to  the  fact  that  there  are,  for  a  given  direction  of  propagation 
of  the  light  quanta,  two  characteristic  vibrations  of  blackbody  radiation, 
distinguished  by  their  polarisation.  Nevertheless  there  remain  essential 
differences  between  the  two  cases.  While  in  relativity  one  describes  waves 
by  a  (real)  sextuple  vector  FiX  —  —FXi,  for  the  spinning  electron  one  has 
proposed  the  following  two  modes  of  description  for  the  associated  de 
Broglie  waves:  1.  One  describes  these  waves  by  two  complex  functions 
ipa,  ipp  (and  so  by  four  real  functions);  but  these  functions  transform 
in  a  way  that  is  hardly  intuitive  during  the  change  from  one  system 
of  coordinates  to  another.  That  is  the  route  I  followed  myself.  Or  else: 
2.  Following  the  example  of  Darwin,  one  introduces  a  quadruple  vector 
with  generally  complex  components  (and  so  eight  real  functions  in  total) . 
But  this  procedure  has  the  inconvenience  that  the  vector  involves  a 
redundancy  [indetermination] ,  because  all  the  verifiable  results  depend 
on  only  two  complex  functions. 

These  two  modes  of  description  are  mathematically  equivalent,  but 
independently  of  whether  one  decides  in  favour  of  one  or  the  other,  it 
seems  to  me  that  one  cannot  speak  of  a  simple  analogy  between  the 
polarisation  of  light  waves  and  the  polarisation  of  de  Broglie  waves 
associated  with  the  spinning  electron. 


Photons  and  electrons 


507 


Another  essential  difference  between  electrons  and  light  quanta  is  this, 
that  between  light  quanta  there  does  not  exist  direct  (immediate)  mutual 
action,  whereas  electrons,  as  a  result  of  their  carrying  an  electric  charge, 
exert  direct  mutual  actions  on  each  other. 

Mr  DiracQ  —  I  should  like  to  point  out  an  important  failure  in  the 
analogy  between  the  spin  of  electrons  and  the  polarisation  of  photons. 
In  the  present  theory  of  the  spinning  electron  one  assumes  that  one  can 
specify  the  direction  of  the  spin  axis  of  an  electron  at  the  same  time  as  its 
position,  or  at  the  same  time  as  its  momentum.  Thus  the  spin  variable 
of  an  electron  commutes33  with  its  coordinate  and  with  its  momentum 
variables.  The  case  is  different  for  photons.  One  can  specify  a  direction  of 
polarisation  for  plane  monochromatic  light  waves,  representing  photons 
of  given  momentum,  so  that  the  polarisation  variable  commutes  with 
the  momentum  variables.  On  the  other  hand,  if  the  position  of  a  photon 
is  specified,  it  means  one  has  an  electromagnetic  disturbance  confined  to 
a  very  small  volume,34  and  one  cannot  give  a  definite  polarisation,  i.e. 
a  definite  direction  for  the  electric  vector,  to  this  disturbance.  Thus  the 
polarisation  variable  of  a  photon  does  not  commute  with  its  coordinates. 

Mr  Lorentz.  —  In  these  different  theories,  one  deals  with  the  pro- 
bability ijjtjj*.  I  should  like  to  see  quite  clearly  how  this  probability  can 
exist  when  particles  move  in  a  well-defined  manner  following  certain 
laws.  In  the  case  of  electrons,  this  leads  to  the  question  of  motions  in 
the  field  tp  (de  Broglie).  But  the  same  question  arises  for  light  quanta. 
Do  photons  allow  us  to  recover  all  the  classical  properties  of  waves?  Can 
one  represent  the  energy,  momentum  and  Poynting  vector  by  photons? 
One  sees  immediately  that,  when  one  has  an  energy  density  and  energy 
flow,  if  one  wishes  to  explain  this  by  photons  then  the  number  of  photons 
per  unit  volume  gives  the  density,  and  the  number  of  photons  per  second 
that  move  across  a  unit  surface  gives  the  Poynting  vector. 

The  photons  will  then  have  to  move  with  a  speed  different  from  that  of 
light.  If  one  wished  to  assign  always  the  same  speed  c  to  the  photons,  in 
some  cases  one  would  have  to  assume  a  superposition  of  several  photon 
currents.  Or  else  one  would  have  to  assume  that  the  photons  cannot  be 
used  to  represent  all  the  components  of  the  energy-momentum  tensor. 
Some  of  the  terms  must  be  continuous  in  the  field.  Or  else  the  photons 
are  smeared  out  [fondus]. 

a  Again,  here  we  follow  Dirac's  original  English  (eds.). 


508 


General  discussion 


A  related  question  is  to  know  whether  the  photons  can  have  a  speed 
different  from  that  of  light  and  whether  they  can  even  be  at  rest.  That 
would  altogether  displease  me.  Could  we  speak  of  these  photons  and  of 
their  motion  in  a  field  of  radiation? 

Mr  de  Broglie.  —  When  I  tried  to  relate  the  motion  of  the  photons 
to  the  propagation  of  the  waves  tp  of  the  new  mechanics,  I  did  not  worry 
about  putting  this  point  of  view  in  accord  with  the  electromagnetic  con- 
ception of  light  waves,  and  I  considered  only  waves  ip  of  scalar  character, 
which  one  has  normally  used  until  now. 

Mr  Lorentz.  —  One  will  need  these  waves  for  photons  also.  Are 
they  of  a  different  nature  than  light  waves?  It  would  please  me  less  to 
have  to  introduce  two  types  of  waves. 

Mr  de  Broglie.  —  At  present  one  does  not  know  at  all  the  physical 
nature  of  the  V'-wave  of  the  photons.  Can  one  try  to  identify  it  with  the 
electromagnetic  wave?  That  is  a  question  that  remains  open.  In  any  case, 
one  can  provisionally  try  to  develop  a  theory  of  photons  by  associating 
them  with  waves  ip. 

Mr  Lorentz.  —  Is  the  speed  of  the  wave  equal  to  that  of  light? 

Mr  de  Broglie.  —  In  my  theory,  the  speed  of  photons  is  equal  to 
c,  except  in  interfering  fields.  In  general,  I  find  that  one  must  assign  to 
a  moving  corpuscle  a  proper  mass  Mq  given  by  the  formula 


the  function  ^  being  calculated  at  the  point  where  the  moving  body 
is  located  at  the  given  moment  (a  is  the  amplitude  of  the  wave  tp)  •  For 
photons,  one  has 


Thus,  when  a  photon  moves  freely,  that  is  to  say,  is  associated  with  an 
ordinary  plane  wave,  Mo  is  zero  and,  to  have  a  finite  energy,  the  photon 
must  have  speed  c.  But,  when  there  is  interference,  —  becomes  different 
from  zero,  Mq  is  no  longer  zero  and  the  photon,  to  maintain  the  same 
energy,  must  have  a  speed  less  than  c,  a  speed  that  can  even  be  zero. 


mo  =  0  . 


Photons  and  electrons  509 

Mr  Lorentz.  —  The  term  must  be  negative,  otherwise  the  mass 
would  become  imaginary. 

Mr  de  Broglie.  —  In  the  corpuscular  conception  of  light,  the  exi- 
stence of  diffraction  phenomena  occuring  at  the  edge  of  a  screen  requires 
us  to  assume  that,  in  this  case,  the  trajectory  of  the  photons  is  curved. 
The  supporters  of  the  emission  theory  said  that  the  edge  of  the  screen 
exerts  a  force  on  the  corpuscle.  Now,  if  in  the  new  mechanics  as  I  develop 
it,  one  writes  the  Lagrange  equations  for  the  photon,  one  sees  appear 
on  the  right-hand  side  of  these  equations  a  term  proportional  to  the 
gradient  of  Mo . 

This  term  represents  a  sort  of  force  of  a  new  kind,  which  exists  only 
when  the  proper  mass  varies,  that  is  to  say,  where  there  is  interference. 
It  is  this  force  that  will  curve  the  trajectory  of  the  photon  when  its  wave 
ip  is  diffracted  by  the  edge  of  a  screen. 

Furthermore,  for  a  cloud  of  photons  the  same  Lagrange  equations  lead 
one  to  recover  the  internal  stresses  pointed  out  by  Messrs  Schrodinger 
and  De  DonderQ  One  finds,  indeed,  the  relations 

O      rTik  +  n%k,   =  Q 

ox"  1  J 

where  the  tensor  T%k  is  the  energy-momentum  tensor  of  the  corpuscles 

Tlk  =  Pouluk  . 

The  tensor  Wk ,  which  depends  on  derivatives  of  the  amplitude  of  the 
wave  -0  and  is  zero  when  this  amplitude  is  constant,  represents  stresses 
existing  in  the  cloud  of  corpuscles,  and  these  stresses  allow  us  to  recover 
the  value  of  the  radiation  pressure  in  the  case  of  reflection  of  light  by  a 
mirror. 

The  tensor  Tlk  +  ITk  is  certainly  related  to  the  Maxwell  tensor  but, 
to  see  clearly  how,  one  would  have  to  be  able  to  clarify  the  relationship 
existing  between  the  wave  ip  of  the  photons  and  the  electromagnetic 
light  wave. 

Mr  Pauli@  —  It  seems  to  me  that,  concerning  the  statistical  results 
of  scattering  experiments,  the  conception  of  Mr  de  Broglie  is  in  full 
agreement  with  Born's  theory  in  the  case  of  elastic  collisions,  but  that 
it  is  no  longer  so  when  one  also  considers  inelastic  collisions.  I  should 


a  Cf.  Schrodinger  (1927b)  and  De  Donder's  comments  above  (eds.). 
b  Cf.  section rrOUerfs.). 


510 


General  discussion 


like  to  illustrate  this  by  the  example  of  the  rotator,  which  was  already 
mentioned  by  Mr  de  Broglie  himself.  As  Fermflhas  shown,  the  treatment 
by  wave  mechanics  of  the  problem  of  the  collision  of  a  particle  that  moves 
in  the  (x,  y)  plane  and  of  a  rotator  situated  in  the  same  plane,  may  be 
made  clear  in  the  following  manner^  One  introduces  a  configuration 
space  of  three  dimensions,  of  which  two  coordinates  correspond  to  the 
x  and  y  of  the  colliding  particle,  while  as  third  coordinate  one  chooses 
the  angle  ip  of  the  rotator.  In  the  case  where  there  is  no  mutual  action 
between  the  rotator  and  the  particle,  the  function  ip  of  the  total  system 
is  given  by35 

where  one  has  put 

h 

pv=m—     (m  =  0,1,2,...)  . 

In  particular,  the  sinusoidal  oscillation  of  the  coordinate  p  corresponds 
to  a  stationary  state  of  the  rotator.  According  to  Born,  the  superposition 
of  several  partial  waves  of  this  type,  corresponding  to  different  values  of 
m  and  by  consequence  of  pv,36  means  that  there  is  a  probability  different 
from  zero  for  several  stationary  states  of  the  rotator,  while  according  to 
the  point  of  view  of  Mr  de  Broglie,  in  this  case  the  rotator  no  longer  has 
a  constant  angular  velocity  and  can  also  execute  oscillations  in  certain 
circumstances. 

Now,  in  the  case  of  a  finite  energy  of  interaction  between  the  colliding 
particle  and  the  rotator,  if  we  study  the  phenomenon  of  the  collision  by 
means  of  the  wave  equation  in  the  space  (x,y,p),  according  to  Fermi 
the  result  can  be  interpreted  very  simply.  Indeed,  since  the  energy  of 
interaction  depends  on  the  angle  p  in  a  periodic  manner  and  vanishes 
at  large  distances  from  the  rotator,  that  is  to  say  from  the  axis  p,  in 
the  space  (x,  y,  p)  we  are  dealing  simply  with  a  wave  that  falls  on  a 
grating  and,  in  particular,  on  a  grating  that  is  unlimited  in  the  direction 
of  the  axis  p.  At  large  distances  from  the  grating,  waves  come  out  only  in 
fixed  directions  in  configuration  space,  characterised  by  integral  values 
of  the  difference  m!  —  m".  Fermi  has  shown  that  the  different  spectral 
orders  correspond  simply  to  the  different  possible  ways  of  transferring 
the  energy  of  the  colliding  particle  to  the  rotator,  or  conversely.  Thus  to 

a  Zeitschr.  f.Phys.  40  (1926),  399. 

b  See  section[l0.2lfor  a  discussion  of  Fermi's  argument  (eds.). 


Photons  and  electrons 


511 


each  spectral  order  of  the  grating  corresponds  a  given  stationary  state 
of  the  rotator  after  the  collision. 

It  is,  however,  an  essential  point  that,  in  the  case  where  the  rotator  is 
in  a  stationary  state  before  the  collision,  the  incident  wave  is  unlimited 
in  the  direction  of  the  axis.  For  this  reason,  the  different  spectral  orders 
of  the  grating  will  always  be  superposed  at  each  point  of  configuration 
space.  If  we  then  calculate,  according  to  the  precepts  of  Mr  de  Broglie, 
the  angular  velocity  of  the  rotator  after  the  collision,  we  must  find  that 
this  velocity  is  not  constant.  If  one  had  assumed  that  the  incident  wave 
is  limitecQ  in  the  direction  of  the  axis  (p,  it  would  have  been  the  same 
before  the  collision.  Mr  de  Broglie's  point  of  view  does  not  then  seem 
to  me  compatible  with  the  requirement  of  the  postulate  of  the  quantum 
theory,  that  the  rotator  is  in  a  stationary  state  both  before  and  after  the 
collision. 

To  me  this  difficulty  does  not  appear  at  all  fortuitous  or  inherent  in  the 
particular  example  of  the  rotator;  in  my  opinion,  it  is  due  directly  to  the 
condition  assumed  by  Mr  de  Broglie,  that  in  the  individual  collision  pro- 
cess the  behaviour  of  the  particles  should  be  completely  determined  and 
may  at  the  same  time  be  described  completely  by  ordinary  kinematics 
in  spacetime.  In  Born's  theory,  agreement  with  the  quantum  postulate 
is  realised  thus,  that  the  different  partial  waves  in  configuration  space, 
of  which  the  general  solution  of  the  wave  equation  after  the  collision 
is  composed,  are  applicable  [indiquees]  separately  in  a  statistical  way. 
But  this  is  no  longer  possible  in  a  theory  that,  in  principle,  considers  it 
possible  to  avoid  the  application  of  notions  of  probability  to  individual 
collision  processes. 

Mr  de  Broglie.  —  Fermi's  problem  is  not  of  the  same  type  as  that 
which  I  treated  earlier;  indeed,  he  makes  configuration  space  play  a  part, 
and  not  ordinary  space. 

The  difficulty  pointed  out  by  Mr  Pauli  has  an  analogue  in  classical 
optics.  One  can  speak  of  the  beam  diffracted  by  a  grating  in  a  given 
direction  only  if  the  grating  and  the  incident  wave  are  laterally  limited, 
because  otherwise  all  the  diffracted  beams  will  overlap  and  be  bathed  in 
the  incident  wave.  In  Fermi's  problem,  one  must  also  assume  the  wave 
ip  to  be  limited  laterally  in  configuration  space. 

a  The  French  reads  'illimitee'  [unlimited],  which  we  interpret  as  a  misprint.  Pauli 
seems  to  be  saying  that  if,  on  the  other  hand,  the  incident  wave  had  been  taken  as 
limited,  then  before  the  collision  the  rotator  could  not  have  been  in  a  stationary 
state  and  its  angular  velocity  could  not  have  been  constant  (eds.). 


512 


General  discussion 


Mr  Lorentz.  —  The  question  is  to  know  what  a  particle  should  do 
when  it  is  immersed  in  two  waves  at  the  same  time. 

Mr  DE  Broglie.  —  The  whole  question  is  to  know  if  one  has  the  right 
to  assume  the  wave  ip  to  be  limited  laterally  in  configuration  space.  If 
one  has  this  right,  the  velocity  of  the  representative  point  of  the  system 
will  have  a  constant  value,  and  will  correspond  to  a  stationary  state 
of  the  rotator,  as  soon  as  the  waves  diffracted  by  the  ip-axis  will  have 
separated  from  the  incident  beam. 

One  can  say  that  it  is  not  possible  to  assume  the  incident  beam  to 
be  limited  laterally,  because  Fermi's  configuration  space  is  formed  by 
the  superposition  of  identical  layers  of  height  2ir  in  the  direction  of  the 
V?-axis;  in  other  words,  two  points  of  configuration  space  lying  on  the 
same  parallel  to  the  (p-axis  and  separated  by  a  whole  multiple  of  2ir 
represent  the  same  state  of  the  system.  In  my  opinion,  this  proves  above 
all  the  artificial  character  of  configuration  spaces,  and  in  particular  of 
that  which  one  obtains  here  by  rolling  out  along  a  line  the  cyclic  variable 
<P- 

Mr  De  Donder.  —  In  the  course  of  the  discussion  of  Mr  L.  de 
Broglie's  report,  we  explained  how  we  obtained  our  Principle  of  Corre- 
spondence; thanks  to  this  principle,  one  will  hav^f] 

P(e)ua  +  Aa  =  V~9K2-e       ^9an  "  V^.n)  "  2-$°^  , 

n 

p(m)uaub  +  Uab  =  ^J2J2  VV"  (MP  +  -  labL 

a  13 

(a,  b,  n  =  1,  ...,4;  a,  (3  =  0, 1, 4)  . 


The  first  relation  represents  the  total  current  (=  electronic  current 
+  quantum  current)  as  a  function  of     and  of  the  potentials  gan,  <f>a. 


a  I  adopt  here  L.  Rosenfeld's  notation,  so  as  to  facilitate  the  comparison  with  his 
formulas,  given  later. 


Photons  and  electrons 

Recall  that  one  has  set 


513 


a  (3 


jab  =  gab  ;  70a 


£a2  =  2X,  X 


8nG 


,    G  ee  6.7  x  10~8  c.g.s. 


We  have  already  mentioned  the  examples  (or  models)  of  correspon- 
dence found  respectively  by  L.  de  Broglie  and  L.  Rosenfeld.  To  be  able 
to  show  clearly  a  new  solution  to  the  problem  relating  to  photons  that 
Mr  L.  de  Broglie  has  just  posed,  I  am  going  to  display  the  formulas 
concerning  the  two  above-mentioned  models  □ 


a  L.  Rosenfeld,  'L'univers  a  cinq  dimensions  et  la  mecanique  ondulatoire',  Bull.  Ac. 
Roy.  Belgique,  CI.  des  Sc.,  October  1927.  See  respectively  the  formulas  (*38'), 
(*31),  (*27),  (21),  (1),  (8),  (35),  (28),  (29),  (*35). 


514 


General  discussion 


Model  of  L.  de  Broglie. 
Quantum  current  Aa  =  0. 


Charge  density  p(e)  =  2K2A'2/j,', 
where  we  have  put 

o  DA' 


ft  ■ 


Model  of  L.  Rosenfeld. 

Quantum  current  Aa  =  2K2A'2C.a, 
where  A'  is  the  modulus  of  ip 
and  where  the  potential  C  = 
S'  —  S.  The  function  S  satisfies 
the  classical  Jacobi  equation;  the 
function  S'  satisfies  the  modified 
Jacobi  equation;  one  then  has 


Mo 


h2  DA' 

:TT2C2  A' 


7 


Otf3  Qf  Qf 
O  nO  p. 


A4 


2X 


DA' 


1 

2^  +  K2A' 


The  quantum  potential  C  produces 
the  difference  between  physical 
quantisation  and  geometrical  quan- 
tisation. 

2 

Recall  that  \x  =  m°c  ,  where  mo  and 
e  are  respectively  the  mass  (at  rest) 
and  charge  of  the  particle  under 
consideration.  We  have  also  put 


k 


iK  =  i- —  . 

h  c 


Charge  density  p(e)  =  2K2A'2fi. 
Here  then  one  retains,  at  the  same 
time,  the  mass  Too  and  the  charge  e. 


K2A'  ' 

which,  retaining  the  charge  e, 
reduces  to  substituting  for  the 
mass  mo  the  modified  mass  of 
L.  de  Broglie: 


Let  us  respectively  apply  these  formulas  to  the  problem  of  the  photon 
pointed  out  by  Mr  L.  de  Broglie.  The  proper  mass  too  of  the  photon  is 
zero;  in  the  model  of  Mr  L.  de  Broglie,  this  mass  must  be  replaced  by  the 
modified  mass  Mo;  on  the  contrary,  in  the  model  of  Mr  L.  Rosenfeld,  one 


Photons  and  electrons 


515 


uses  only  the  proper  mass  too  =  0.  In  the  two  models,  the  charge  density 
/9(e)  is  zero.  Finally,  in  the  first  model,  the  speed  of  the  photon  must 
vary;  in  contrast,  in  the  second  model,  one  can  assume  that  this  speed  is 
always  that  of  light.  These  conclusions  obviously  speak  in  favour  of  the 
model  of  L.  Rosenfeld,  and,  in  consequence,  also  in  favour  of  the  physical 
existence  of  our  quantum  current  Aa  (a  =  1,2,3,4).  This  current  will 
probably  play  a  dominant  role  in  still  unexplained  optical  phenomena^ 


Mr  Lorentz.  —  Let  us  take  an  atom  of  hydrogen  and  let  us  form 
the  Schrodinger  function  ip.37  We  consider  i/)if)*  as  the  probability  for  the 
presence  of  the  electron  in  a  volume  element.  Mr  Born  has  mentioned  all 
the  trajectories  in  the  classical  theory:  let  us  take  them  with  all  possible 
phases  |f|  but  let  us  now  take  the  ip  corresponding  to  a  single  value  Wn  of 
energy  and  then  let  us  form  iptp*.  Can  one  say  that  this  product  V'nV'n 
represents  the  probability  that  the  electrons  move  with  the  given  energy 
Wn?  We  think  that  the  electron  cannot  escape  from  a  certain  sphere.  The 
atom  is  limited,  whereas  ip  extends  to  infinity.  That  is  disagreeable.38 

Mr  Born.  —  The  idea  that  ipip*  represents  a  probability  density  has 
great  importance  in  applications.  If,  for  example,  in  the  classical  theory 
an  electron  had  two  equilibrium  positions  separated  by  a  considerable 
potential  energy,  then  classically,  for  a  sufficiently  weak  total  energy  only 
one  oscillation  could  ever  take  place,  around  one  of  the  two  equilibrium 
positions.  But  according  to  quantum  mechanics,  each  eigenfunction  ex- 
tends from  one  domain  into  the  other;  for  this  reason  there  always  exists 
a  probability  that  a  particle,  which  at  first  vibrates  in  the  neighbourhood 
of  one  of  the  equilibrium  positions,  jumps  to  the  other.  Hund  has  made 
important  applications  of  this  to  molecular  structure.  This  phenomenon 
probably  also  plays  a  role  in  the  explanation  of  metallic  conduction. 

Mr  DE  Broglie.  —  In  the  old  theory  of  the  motion  of  an  electron  in 
the  hydrogen  atom,  an  electron  of  total  energy 

w=   m°°2  -- 

a  On  this  subject,  Mr  L.  Brillouin  has  kindly  drawn  my  attention  to  the  experiments 
by  Mr  F.  Wolfers:  'Sur  un  nouveau  phenomene  en  optique:  interferences  par 
diffusion'  (Le  Journal  de  Physique  et  le  Radium  (VI)  6,  n.  11,  November  1925, 
354-68). 

a  The  'phases'  of  classical  trajectories  seems  to  be  meant  in  the  sense  of  action-angle 
variables  (eds.). 


516 


General  discussion 


cannot  escape  from  a  sphere  of  radius 

R=-- 


W  —  ttiqc2 

s£ 

--/ 

In  my  conception  one  must  take 


because  the  value  of  the  term    ""c     has  m0c2  as  a  lower  limit. 

0^ 


as  the  expression  for  the  energy,  where  Mo  is  the  variable  proper  mass 
which  I  have  already  defined.  Calculation  shows  that  the  proper  mass 
Mo  diminishes  when  r  increases,  in  such  a  way  that  an  electron  of  energy 
W  is  no  longer  at  all  constrained  to  be  in  the  interior  of  a  sphere  of  radius 
R. 


Mr  Born.  —  Contrary  to  Mr  Schrodinger's  opinion,  that  it  is  non- 
sense to  speak  of  the  location  and  motion  of  an  electron  in  the  atom,  Mr 
Bohr  and  I  are  of  the  opinion  that  this  manner  of  speaking  always  has 
a  meaning  when  one  can  specify  an  experiment  allowing  us  to  measure 
the  coordinates  and  the  velocities  with  a  certain  approximation. 


Again  in  Richardson's  notes  on  the  general  discussion  (cf.  p.!478|).  the  following 
text  together  with  Fig.  D  (both  labelled  'Bohr'),  and  a  similar  figure  with  the 
shaded  region  labelled  'B',  appear  immediately  after  notes  on  De  Donder's 
lengthy  exposition  just  above,  and  clearly  refer  to  remarks  Bohr  made  on  the 
topic  being  addressed  here: 

B[ohr]  says  it  has  no  point  to  worry  about  the  paradox  that  the  elec- 
tron in  the  atom  is  in  a  fixed  path  (ellipse  or  circle)  and  the  probability 
that  it  should  be  found  in  a  given  place  is  given  by  the  product  tp'tfj  which 
is  a  continuous  function  of  space  extending  from  zero  to  oo.  He  says  if 
we  take  a  region  such  as  B  a  long  way  from  the  atom  in  order  to  find 
if  the  electron  is  there  we  must  illuminate  it  with  long  light  waves  and 
the  frequency  of  these  is  so  low  that  the  electron  is  out  of  the  region  by 
reason  of  its  motion  in  the  stationary  state  before  it  has  been  illuminated 
long  enough  for  the  photoelectric  act  to  occur.  I  am  really  not  sure  if 
this  is  right.  But,  anyway,  it  is  no  objection  to  pulling  it  out  with  an 
intense  static  electric  field  &  this  appears  to  be  what  is  happening  in 
the  W  experiments. 


Photons  and  electrons 


517 


[B] 


requires 
red  light 
to  detect 


&  electron 
won 't  stay 
long  enough. 


Fig.  D. 


Mr  Pauli.  —  One  can  indeed  determine  the  location  of  the  electron 
outside  the  sphere,  but  without  modifying  its  energy  to  the  point  where 
an  ionisation  of  the  atom  occurs. 

Mr  Lorentz.  —  I  should  like  to  make  a  remark  on  the  subject  of 
wave  packets  0 

When  Mr  Schrodinger  drew  attention  to  the  analogy  between  me- 
chanics and  optics,  he  suggested  the  idea  of  passing  from  corpuscular 
mechanics  to  wave  mechanics  by  making  a  modification  analogous  to 
that  which  is  made  in  the  passage  from  geometrical  optics  to  wave 
optics.39  The  wave  packet  gave  a  quite  striking  picture  of  the  electron, 
but  in  the  atom  the  electron  had  to  be  completely  smeared  out  [fondu], 
the  packet  having  the  dimensions  of  the  atom.  When  the  dimensions  of 
the  wave  packet  become  comparable  to  those  of  the  trajectories  of  the 
classical  theory,  the  material  point  would  start  to  spread;  having  passed 
this  stage,  the  electron  will  be  completely  smeared  out. 

The  mathematical  difficulty  of  constructing  wave  packets  in  the  atom 
is  due  to  the  fact  that  we  do  not  have  at  our  disposal  wavelengths 
sufficiently  small  or  sufficiently  close  together.  The  frequencies  of  stable 
waves  in  the  atom  (eigenvalues)  are  more  or  less  separated  from  each 
other;  one  cannot  have  frequencies  very  close  together  corresponding  to 
states  differing  by  very  little,  because  the  conditions  at  infinity  would  not 


a  Cf.  also  the  discussion  of  the  Lorentz-Schrodinger  correspondence  in  section  14.31 
(eds.). 


518 


General  discussion 


be  satisfied.  To  construct  a  packet,  one  must  superpose  waves  of  slightly 
different  wavelengths;  now,  one  can  use  only  eigenfunctions  ipn,  which 
are  sharply  different  from  each  other.  In  atoms,  then,  one  cannot  have 
wave  packets.  But  there  is  a  difficulty  also  for  free  electrons,  because  in 
reality  a  wave  packet  does  not,  in  general,  retain  its  shape  in  a  lasting 
manner.  Localised  [limites]  wave  packets  do  not  seem  able  to  maintain 
themselves;  spreading  takes  place.  The  picture  of  the  electron  given  by 
a  wave  packet  is  therefore  not  satisfying,  except  perhaps  during  a  short 
enough  time. 

What  Mr  Bohr  does  is  this:  after  an  observation  he  again  localises 
[limite]  the  wave  packet  so  as  to  make  it  represent  what  this  observation 
has  told  us  about  the  position  and  motion  of  the  electron;  a  new  period 
then  starts  during  which  the  packet  spreads  again,  until  the  moment 
when  a  new  observation  allows  us  to  carry  out  the  reduction  again.  But 
I  should  like  to  have  a  picture  of  all  that  during  an  unlimited  time.40 

Mr  Schrodinger.  —  I  see  no  difficulty  at  all  in  the  fact  that  on  orbits 
of  small  quantum  number  one  certainly  cannot  construct  wave  packets 
that  move  in  the  manner  of  the  point  electrons  of  the  old  mechanics. 

The  fact  that  this  is  impossible  is  precisely  the  salient  point  of  the 
wave  mechanical  view,  the  basis  of  the  absolute  powerlessness  of  the  old 
mechanics  in  the  domain  of  atomic  dimensions.  The  original  picture  was 
this,  that  what  moves  is  in  reality  not  a  point  but  a  domain  of  excitation 
of  finite  dimensions,  in  particular  at  least  of  the  order  of  magnitude  of  a 
few  wavelengths.  When  such  a  domain  of  excitation  propagates  along  a 
trajectory  whose  dimensions  and  radii  of  curvature  are  large  compared 
with  the  dimensions  of  the  domain  itself,  one  can  abstract  away  the 
details  of  its  structure  and  consider  only  its  progress  along  the  trajectory. 
This  progress  takes  place  following  exactly  the  laws  of  the  old  mechanics. 
But  if  the  trajectory  shrinks  until  it  becomes  of  the  order  of  magnitude 
of  a  few  wavelengths,  as  is  the  case  for  orbits  of  small  quantum  number, 
all  its  points  will  be  continually  inside  the  domain  of  excitation  and  one 
can  no  longer  reasonably  speak  of  the  propagation  of  an  excitation  along 
a  trajectory,  which  implies  that  the  old  mechanics  loses  all  meaning. 

That  is  the  original  idea.  One  has  since  found  that  the  naive  iden- 
tification of  an  electron,  moving  on  a  macroscopic  orbit,  with  a  wave 
packet  encounters  difficulties  and  so  cannot  be  accepted  to  the  letter. 
The  main  difficulty  is  this,  that  with  certainty  the  wave  packet  spreads 
in  all  directions  when  it  strikes  an  obstacle,  an  atom  for  example.  We 
know  today,  from  the  interference  experiments  with  cathode  rays  by 


Photons  and  electrons 


519 


Davisson  and  Germer,  that  this  is  part  of  the  truth,  while  on  the  other 
hand  the  Wilson  cloud  chamber  experiments  have  shown  that  there  must 
be  something  that  continues  to  describe  a  well-defined  trajectory  after 
the  collision  with  the  obstacle.  I  regard  the  compromise  proposed  from 
different  sides,  which  consists  of  assuming  a  combination  of  waves  and 
point  electrons,  as  simply  a  provisional  manner  of  resolving  the  difficulty. 

Mr  Born.  —  Also  in  the  classical  theory,  the  precision  with  which  the 
future  location  of  a  particle  can  be  predicted  depends  on  the  accuracy 
of  the  measurement  of  the  initial  location.  It  is  then  not  in  this  that 
the  manner  of  description  of  quantum  mechanics,  by  wave  packets,  is 
different  from  classical  mechanics.  It  is  different  because  the  laws  of 
propagation  of  packets  are  slightly  different  in  the  two  cases. 


520 


Notes  to  pp.  476-500 


Notes  to  the  translation 

1  Microfilmed  in  AHQP-BMSS-11,  section  5. 

2  AHQP-36,  section  10. 

3  These  notes  are  to  be  found  in  the  Richardson  collection  in  Houston, 
included  with  the  copy  of  Born  and  Heisenberg's  report  (microfilmed  in 
AHQP-RDN,  document  M-0309). 

4  Included  in  AHQP-RDN,  document  M-0309. 

5  French  edition:  'les'  is  misprinted  as  'le'. 

6  AEA  16-617.00  (in  German,  with  transcription  and  archival  comments). 

7  The  French  text  has  'tp'  instead  of  '4>\  and  'doit  satisfaire  dans  l'espace 
ordinaire'  instead  of  the  other  way  round.  Note  that  0  is  a  functional  of 
'material'  waves  which  themselves  propagate  in  ordinary  space. 

8  AHQP-36,  section  10. 

9  The  French  adds:  'decrite  par  M.  Compton'. 

10  The  French  reads:  'provient  uniquement  de'. 

11  Dirac's  manuscript  omits  'At  present'. 

12  The  French  reads  'intuitivite'. 

13  Instead  of  'commute'  the  French  has  'permuter  leurs  valeurs'. 

14  The  French  reads:  'transformation  canonique'. 

15  Instead  of  'commute'  the  French  has  'changent  de  valeur'. 

16  Dirac's  manuscript  reads  'the'. 

17  In  Dirac's  manuscript,  the  words  'determinism  and'  are  cancelled  and 
possibly  reinstated.  They  appear  in  the  French,  which  also  omits  'of 
yesterday'. 

18  <therefore  unsatisfactory >  <untenable>,  the  latter  seems  reinstated. 
The  French  has  'independable'. 

19  Instead  of  'the  distinguishing  characteristics'  the  French  has  Tessence 
physique'. 

20  <do>,  {would}  appears  above  the  line,  {can}  below.  The  French  reads 
'ne  figurent  pas'. 

21  This  sentence  does  not  appear  in  the  French. 

22  In  the  French,  this  sentence  appears  at  the  beginning  of  the  paragraph. 

23  This  sentence  does  not  appear  in  the  French. 

24  Dirac's  manuscript  has  'c^'. 

25  <Thus  <a  possibility>  {the  existence}  of>  . 

26  The  French  has  'F.'. 

27  Misprinted  as  'comptabilite',  despite  having  been  corrected  in  the  galley 
proofs. 

28  In  the  printed  text,  the  word  'Dirac'  is  misplaced  to  later  in  the 
paragraph. 

29  Misprinted  as  'protons'. 

30  Again  misprinted  as  'protons'. 

31  The  version  of  this  contribution  in  the  galley  proofs  reads  as  follows: 

Mr  Langevin  makes  a  comparison  between  the  old  and  modern 
statistics. 

Formerly,  one  decomposed  the  phase  space,  into  cells  and  one  evaluated 
the  representative  points. 


Notes  to  pp.  504-518 


521 


It  seems  that  one  must  modify  this  method  by  suppressing  the 
individuality  of  the  representative  points  and  [blank] 

Third  method:  that  of  Pauli. 

This  type  of  representation  seems  more  appropriate  to  the  conception  of 
photons  and  particles  [blank]  attribute  identity  of  nature,  attribute  at  the 
same  time  individuality  representing  a  state. 

In  the  report  of  Messrs  Born  and  Heisenberg,  I  see  that  it  results  from 
quantum  mechanics  that  the  statistics  of  Bose-Einstein  is  suitable  for 
molecules,  that  of  Pauli-Dirac,  instead,  is  suitable  for  electrons.  This 
means  that  for  [blank]  there  is  superposition,  while  for  photons  and 
electrons  there  is  impenetrability. 

32  The  galley  proofs  contain  the  following  version  of  this  contribution: 

Mr  Langmuir  would  like  to  see  established  clearly  a  parallel  between 
electrons  and  photons.  What  characterises  an  electron?  A  well-defined 
charge.  What  characterises  the  photon?  Its  velocity,  perhaps?  What  is 
the  analogy,  what  are  the  differences?  Electron:  de  Broglie  waves;  photon: 
electromagnetic  waves.  For  certain  respects,  this  parallelism  is  clear,  but 
perhaps  it  can  be  pursued  to  the  end?  What  are  the  suggestions  in  the 
way  of  experiments? 

33  The  French  renders  'commute'  throughout  with  'changer'. 

34  The  French  adds:  'a  un  instant  donne'. 

35  'h'  misprinted  as  'A'. 

36  'p^  misprinted  as  '<p'. 

37  'i/>'  missing  in  the  original,  with  a  space  instead. 

38  Here  the  galley  proofs  include  an  additional  sentence: 

If  one  took  the  integral  extended  over  the  whole  of  this  space,  the 
exterior  part  would  be  comparable. 

39  The  original  mistakenly  reads  'geometrical  mechanics'  and  'corpuscular 
optics'. 

40  The  version  in  the  galley  proofs  reads  as  follows.  (Note  that  in  the  case  of 
this  and  the  preceding  contribution  by  Lorentz  in  the  galley  proofs,  the 
published  version  was  clearly  not  edited  by  him,  since  he  had  died  at  the 
beginning  of  February.) 

Mr  Lorentz.  —  I  should  like  to  make  a  remark  on  the  subject  of  wave 
packets. 

When  Mr  Schrodinger  drew  attention  to  the  analogy  between  mechanics 
and  optics,  he  suggested  the  idea  of  passing  from  geometrical  mechanics 
to  wave  mechanics  by  making  a  modification  analogous  to  that  which  is 
made  in  the  passage  from  corpuscular  optics  to  wave  optics.  The  wave 
packet  was  a  quite  striking  picture,  but  in  the  atom  the  electron  is 
completely  smeared  out,  the  packet  being  of  the  dimensions  of  the 


522 


Notes  to  pp.  518-518 


atom  [blank],  material  point  that  would  start  to  spread  [blank],  passed, 
these  electrons  are  completely  smeared  out. 

Mathematical  difficulty,  wave  packets  in  the  atom,  more  or  less 
distinguished  frequencies  (eigenvalues),  but  you  could  not  have 
frequencies  very  close  together  by  states  differing  by  much  or  little  [par 
des  etats  tant  soit  peu  differants],  because  one  would  not  have  the 
conditions  at  infinity.  To  construct  a  packet,  one  must  superpose  waves  of 
slightly  different  wavelengths;  now,  one  can  use  only  eigenfunctions  ipn, 
which  are  sharply  different  from  each  other.  Thus  one  does  not  have  the 
waves  with  which  one  could  build  a  packet.  In  atoms,  then,  one  cannot 
have  the  wave  packets;  it  is  the  same  for  free  electrons.  All  these  wave 
packets  will  end  up  dissolving. 

In  reality  a  wave  packet  does  not  last;  wave  packets  that  would  remain 
localised  [limites]  do  not  seem  to  maintain  themselves;  spreading  takes 
place;  the  picture  is  therefore  not  satisfying  [blank],  short  enough  time 
perhaps  [blank]. 

What  Mr  Bohr  does  is  this  [small  blank]  after  an  observation  we  have 
again  localised  [limite]  [blank];  a  new  period  starts  [blank].  But  I  should 
like  to  have  a  picture  of  all  that  during  an  indefinite  time. 


Bibliography 


Aharonov,  Y.,  and  Vaidman,  L.  (1996).  About  position  measurements  which 

do  not  show  the  Bohmian  particle  position.  In  Cushing,  Fine  and 

Goldstein  (1996),  pp.  141-54. 
Bacciagaluppi,  G.  (2005).  The  role  of  decoherence  in  quantum  theory.  In  The 

Stanford  Encyclopedia  of  Philosophy,  Summer  2005  edn.,  ed.  E.  N.  Zalta. 

http: / / plato.stanford.edu/archives / sum2005 / entries / qm-decoherence  . 
Ballentine,  L.  E.  (1970).  The  statistical  interpretation  of  quantum  mechanics. 

Reviews  of  Modern  Physics,  42,  358-81. 
Ballentine,  L.  E.  (1972).  Einstein's  interpretation  of  quantum  mechanics. 

American  Journal  of  Physics,  40,  1763-71. 
Ballentine,  L.  E.  (1986).  Probability  theory  in  quantum  mechanics.  American 

Journal  of  Physics,  54,  883-9. 
Ballentine,  L.  E.  (1987).  Resource  letter  IQM-2:  Foundations  of  quantum 

mechanics  since  the  Bell  inequalities.  American  Journal  of  Physics,  55, 

785-92. 

Ballentine,  L.  (2003).  The  classical  limit  of  quantum  mechanics  and  its 

implications  for  the  foundations  of  quantum  mechanics.  In  Quantum 

Theory:  Reconsideration   of  Foundations   —  2,   ed.   A.  Khrennikov, 

Mathematical  modelling  in  physics,  engineering  and  cognitive  science, 

vol.  10.  Vaxjo:  Vaxjo  University  Press,  pp.  71-82. 
Barbour,  J.  B.  (1994a).  The  timelessness  of  quantum  gravity,  I.  The  evidence 

from  the  classical  theory.  Classical  and  Quantum  Gravity,  11,  2853-73. 
Barbour,  J.  B.   (1994b).  The  timelessness  of  quantum  gravity,  II.  The 

appearance  of  dynamics  in  static  configurations.  Classical  and  Quantum 

Gravity,  11,  2875-97. 
Bell,  J.  S.  (1964).  On  the  Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen  paradox.  Physics,  1,  195- 

200.  Reprinted  in  Bell  (1987),  pp.  14-21. 
Bell,  J.  S.  (1966).  On  the  problem  of  hidden  variables  in  quantum  mechanics. 

Reviews  of  Modern  Physics,  38,  447-52.  Reprinted  in  Bell  (1987),  pp.  1- 

13. 

Bell,  J.  S.  (1980).  De  Broglie-Bohm,  delayed-choice  double-slit  experiment, 
and  density  matrix.  International  Journal  of  Quantum  Chemistry,  14, 
155-9.  Reprinted  in  Bell  (1987),  pp.  111-16. 

Bell,  J.  S.  (1984).  Beables  for  quantum  field  theory.  CERN-TH.  4035/84. 
Reprinted  in  Bell  (1987),  pp.  173-80. 

Bell,  J.  S.  (1986).  Interview.  In  The  Ghost  in  the  Atom,  eds.  P.  C.  W.  Davies 


523 


524 


Bibliography 


and  J.  R.  Brown.  Cambridge:  Cambridge  University  Press,  pp.  45-57. 
Bell,   J.   S.   (1987).   Speakable  and   Unspeakable  in  Quantum  Mechanics. 

Cambridge:  Cambridge  University  Press. 
Bell,  J.  S.  (1990).  Against  'measurement'.  In  Miller  (1990),  pp.  17-31. 
Beller,  M.  (1999).  Quantum  Dialogue:  The  Making  of  a  Revolution.  Chicago: 

University  of  Chicago  Press. 
Belousek,  D.  W.  (1996).  Einstein's  1927  unpublished  hidden-variable  theory: 

its   background,    context   and   significance.    Studies   in  History  and 

Philosophy  of  Modern  Physics,  27,  437-61. 
Berndl,  K.,  Diirr,  D.,  Goldstein,  S.,  and  Zanghi,  N.  (1996).  Nonlocality, 

Lorentz  invariance,  and  Bohmian  quantum  theory.  Physical  Review  A, 

53,  2062-73. 

Berry,  M.  (1997).  Slippery  as  an  eel.  Physics  World,  10  (December  1997), 
41-2. 

Bjorken,  J.  D.,  and  Drell,  S.  D.  (1964).  Relativistic  Quantum  Mechanics.  New 

York:  McGraw-Hill. 
Bohme,  K.  (ed.)  (1975).  Aufrufe  und  Reden  deutscher  Professoren  im  ersten 

Weltkrieg.  Stuttgart:  Reclam. 
Bohm,  D.  (1952a).  A  suggested  interpretation  of  the  quantum  theory  in  terms 

of  'hidden'  variables,  I.  Physical  Review,  85,  166-79. 
Bohm,  D.  (1952b).  A  suggested  interpretation  of  the  quantum  theory  in  terms 

of  'hidden'  variables,  II.  Physical  Review,  85,  180-93. 
Bohm,  D.  (1953).  Proof  that  probability  density  approaches  |?/>|2  in  causal 

interpretation  of  the  quantum  theory.  Physical  Review,  89,  458-66. 
Bohm,  D.,  Dewdney,  C,  and  Hiley,  B.  J.  (1985).  A  quantum  potential 

approach  to  the  Wheeler  delayed-choice  experiment.  Nature,  315,  294-7. 
Bohm,  D.,  and  Hiley,  B.  J.  (1993).  The  Undivided  Universe:  An  Ontological 

Interpretation  of  Quantum  Theory.  London:  Routledge. 
Bohm,  D.,  and  Vigier,  J.  P.  (1954).  Model  of  the  causal  interpretation  of 

quantum  theory  in  terms  of  a  fluid  with  irregular  fluctuations.  Physical 

Review,  96,  208-16. 
Bohr,  N.  (1925).  Uber  die  Wirkung  von  Atomen  bei  Stofien.  Zeitschrift  fur 

Physik,  34,  142-57. 

Bohr,  N.  (1928).  Das  Quantenpostulat  und  die  neuere  Entwicklung  der 
Atomistik.  Die  Naturwissenschaften,  16,  245-57. 

Bohr,  N.  (1949).  Discussion  with  Einstein  on  epistemological  problems  in 
atomic  physics.  In  Schilpp  (1949),  pp.  201-41. 

Bohr,  N.  (1984).  Niels  Bohr:  Collected  Works,  vol.  5,  ed.  K.  Stolzenburg. 
Amsterdam:  North-Holland. 

Bohr,  N.  (1985).  Niels  Bohr:  Collected  Works,  vol.  6,  ed.  J.  Kalckar. 
Amsterdam:  North-Holland. 

Bohr,  N.,  Kramers,  H.  A.,  and  Slater,  J.  C.  (1924a).  The  quantum  theory 
of  radiation.  Philosophical  Magazine,  47,  785-802.  Reprinted  in  Sources 
of  quantum  mechanics,  ed.  B.  L.  van  der  Waerden.  Amsterdam:  North- 
Holland,  1967,  pp.  159-76. 

Bohr,  N.,  Kramers,  H.  A.,  and  Slater,  J.  C.  (1924b).  Uber  die  Quantentheorie 
der  Strahlung.  Zeitschrift  fur  Physik,  24,  69-87. 

Bonk,  T.  (1994).  Why  has  de  Broglie's  theory  been  rejected?  Studies  in  the 
History  and  Philosophy  of  Science,  25,  191-209. 

Born,  M.  (1924).  Uber  Quantenmechanik.  Zeitschrift  fur  Physik,  26,  379-95. 

Born,  M.  (1926a).  Zur  Quantenmechanik  der  Stossvorgange.  Zeitschrift  fur 


Bibliography 


525 


Physik,  37,  863-7. 

Born,  M.  (1926b).  Quantenmechanik  der  Stossvorgange.  Zeitschrift  fur  Physik, 
38,803-27. 

Born,  M.  (1926c).  Das  Adiabatenprinzip  in  der  Quantenmechanik.  Zeitschrift 

fur  Physik,  40,  167-92. 
Born,   M.    (1926d).    Problems   of  Atomic  Dynamics.    Cambridge,  Mass.: 

Massachusetts  Institute  of  Technology.  Reprinted  Cambridge,  Mass.:  MIT 

Press,  1970. 

Born,  M.  (1926e).  Probleme  der  Atomdynamik.  Berlin:  Springer. 

Born,  M.  (1927).  Physical  aspects  of  quantum  mechanics.  Nature,  119,  354-7. 

Born,  M.  (1969).  Atomic  Physics,  8th  edn.  Glasgow:  Blackie  and  Son. 

Reprinted  New  York:  Dover,  1989. 
Born,  M.,  and  Jordan,  P.  (1925).  Zur  Quantenmechanik,  I.  Zeitschrift  fur 

Physik,  34,  858-88. 

Born,  M.,  Heisenberg,  W.,  and  Jordan,  P.  (1926).  Zur  Quantenmechanik,  II. 

Zeitschrift  fur  Physik,  35,  557-615. 
Born,  M.,  and  Wiener,  N.  (1926a).  Eine  neue  Formulierung  der  Quantengesetze 

fur  periodische  und  nichtperiodische  Vorgange.  Zeitschrift  fur  Physik,  36, 

174-87. 

Born,   M.,   and  Wiener,   N.    (1926b).    A   new  formulation   of  the  laws 

of  quantization  of  periodic   and  aperiodic   phenomena.    Journal  of 

Mathematics  and  Physics  M.I.T.,  5,  84-98. 
Bose,  S.  N.  (1924)  Warmegleichgewicht  im  Strahlungsfeld  bei  Anwesenheit 

von  Materie.  Zeitschrift  fur  Physik,  27,  384-92. 
Bothe,  W.,  and  Geiger,  H.  (1924).  Ein  Weg  zur  experimentellen  Nachpriifung 

der  Theorie  von  Bohr,  Kramers  und  Slater.  Zeitschrift  fur  Physik,  26,  44. 
Bothe,  W.,  and  Geiger,  H.  (1925a).  Experimentelles  zur  Theorie  von  Bohr, 

Kramers  und  Slater.  Die  Naturwissenschaften,  13,  440-1. 
Bothe,  W.,  and  Geiger,  H.  (1925b).  Uber  das  Wesen  des  Comptoneffekts:  ein 

experimenteller  Beitrag  zur  Theorie  der  Strahlung.  Zeitschrift  fur  Physik, 

32,  639-63. 

Brillouin,  L.  (1922).  Diffusion  de  la  lumiere  et  des  rayons  X  par  un  corps 

transparent  homogene;  influence  de  l'agitation  thermique.  Annates  de 

Physique,  17,  88-122. 
Broglie,  L.  de  (1922).  Rayonnement  noir  et  quanta  de  lumiere.  Le  Journal  de 

Physique  et  le  Radium,  (6)  3,  422-8. 
Broglie,  L.  de  (1923a).  Ondes  et  quanta.  Comptes  Rendus  Hebdornadaires  des 

Seances  de  I'Academie  des  Sciences  (Paris),  177,  507-10. 
Broglie,  L.  de  (1923b).  Quanta  de  lumiere,  diffraction  et  interferences.  Comptes 

Rendus  Hebdornadaires  des  Seances  de  I'Academie  des  Sciences  (Paris), 

177,  548-50. 

Broglie,  L.  de  (1923c).  Les  quanta,  la  theorie  cinetique  des  gaz  et  le  principe 

de  Fermat.  Comptes  Rendus  Hebdornadaires  des  Seances  de  I'Academie 

des  Sciences  (Paris),  177,  630-2. 
Broglie,  L.  de  (1923d).  Waves  and  quanta.  Nature,  112,  540. 
Broglie,  L.  de  (1924a).  A  tentative  theory  of  light  quanta.  Philosophical 

Magazine  (6),  47,  446-58. 
Broglie,  L.  de  (1924b).  Sur  la  definition  generate  de  la  correspondance  entre 

onde  et  mouvement.  Comptes  Rendus  Hebdornadaires  des  Seances  de 

I'Academie  des  Sciences  (Paris),  179,  39-40. 
Broglie,  L.  de  (1924c).  Sur  un  theoreme  de  M.  Bohr.   Comptes  Rendus 


526 


Bibliography 


Hebdomadaires  des  Seances  de  I'Academie  des  Sciences  (Paris),  179, 
676-7. 

Broglie,  L.  de  (1924d).  Sur  la  dynamique  du  quantum  de  lumiere  et  les 
interferences.  Comptes  Rendus  Hebdomadaires  des  Seances  de  I'Academie 
des  Sciences  (Paris),  179,  1039-41. 

Broglie,  L.  de  (1924e).  Recherches  sur  la  theorie  des  quanta.  Ph.D.  Thesis, 
University  of  Paris. 

Broglie,  L.  de  (1925).  Recherches  sur  la  theorie  des  quanta.  Annales  de 

Physique  (10),  3,  22-128. 
Broglie,  L.  de  (1926).  Sur  la  possibility  de  relier  les  phenomenes  d'interferences 

et  de  diffraction  a  la  theorie  des  quanta  de  lumiere.  Comptes  Rendus 

Hebdomadaires  des  Seances  de  I'Academie  des  Sciences  (Paris),  183,  447- 

8. 

Broglie,  L.  de  (1927a).  La  structure  atomique  de  la  matiere  et  du  rayonnement 

et  la  mecanique  ondulatoire.  Comptes  Rendus  Hebdomadaires  des  Seances 

de  I'Academie  des  Sciences  (Paris),  184,  273-4. 
Broglie,  L.  de  (1927b).  La  mecanique  ondulatoire  et  la  structure  atomique  de 

la  matiere  et  du  rayonnement.  Le  Journal  de  Physique  et  le  Radium  (6), 

8,  225-41. 

Broglie,  L.  de  (1930).  An  Introduction  to  the  Study  of  Wave  Mechanics.  New 

York:  E.  P.  Dutton  and  Company. 
Broglie,  L.  de  (1955).  Physics  and  Microphysics.  New  York:  Pantheon  Books. 
Broglie,  L.  de  (1956).  Une  tentative  d 'interpretation  causale  et  non  lineaire 

de  la  mecanique  ondulatoire  (la  theorie  de  la  double  solution).  Paris: 

Gauthier-Villars. 

Broglie,  L.  de  (1974).  Beginnings  of  wave  mechanics.  In  Wave  Mechanics:  The 

First  Fifty  Years,  eds.  W.  C.  Price,  S.  S.  Chissick  and  T.  Ravensdale. 

London:  Butterworths. 
Broglie,  L.  de  (1999).  The  wave  nature  of  the  electron.  Nobel  lecture,  12 

December  1929.  In  Nobel  Lectures  in  Physics  (1901-1995),  CD-Rom  edn. 

Singapore:  World  Scientific. 
Broglie,  L.  de,  and  Brillouin,  L.  (1928).  Selected  Papers  on  Wave  Mechanics. 

London:  Blackie  and  Son. 
Brown,  L.  M.  (ed.)  (2005).  Feynman's  Thesis:  a  New  Approach  to  Quantum 

Theory.  New  Jersey:  World  Scientific. 
Camilleri,  K.  (2006).  Heisenberg  and  the  wave-particle  duality.  Studies  in 

History  and  Philosophy  of  Modern  Physics,  37,  298-315. 
Campbell,  N.  R.  (1921).  Atomic  structure.  Nature,  107,  170. 
Campbell,  N.  R.  (1926).  Time  and  chance.  Philosophical  Magazine  (7),  1, 

1106-17. 

Chevalley,    C.    (1988).    Physical   reality   and   closed  theories   in  Werner 

HeisenbergSs  early  papers.  In  Theory  and  Experiment,  eds.  D.  Batens 

and  J.  P.  van  Bendegem.  Dordrecht:  Reidel. 
Clifton,  R.,  Bub,  J.,  and  Halvorson,  H.  (2003).  Characterizing  quantum  theory 

in  terms  of  information-theoretic  constraints.  Foundations  of  Physics,  33, 

1561-91. 

Compton,  A.  H.  (1928).  Some  experimental  difficulties  with  the  electromag- 
netic theory  of  radiation.  Journal  of  the  Franklin  Institute,  205,  155-78. 

Compton,  A.  H.,  and  Simon,  A.  W.  (1925).  Directed  quanta  of  scattered  X- 
rays.  Physical  Review,  26,  289-99. 

Cushing,  J.  T.  (1994).  Quantum  Mechanics:  Historical  Contingency  and  the 


Bibliography 


527 


Copenhagen  Hegemony.  Chicago:  University  of  Chicago  Press. 
Cushing,  J.  T.  (1996).  The  causal  quantum  theory  program.  In  Cushing,  Fine 

and  Goldstein  (1996),  pp.  1-19. 
Cushing,  J.  T.,  Fine,  A.,  and  Goldstein,  S.  (eds.)  (1996).  Bohmian  Mechanics 

and  Quantum  Theory:  An  Appraisal.  Dordrecht:  Kluwer. 
Darrigol,  0.  (1992).  From  c-numbers  to  q-numbers:  The  Classical  Analogy  in 

the  History  of  Quantum  Theory.  Berkeley:  University  of  California  Press. 
Darrigol,  O.  (1993).  Strangeness  and  soundness  in  Louis  de  Broglie's  early 

works.  Physis,  30,  303-72.  Reprinted  with  typographical  corrections, 

1994. 

Davisson,  C,  and  Germer,  L.  (1927).  The  scattering  of  electrons  by  a  single 

crystal  of  Nickel.  Nature,  119,  558-60. 
Debye,   P.    (1909).    Das   Verhalten   von   Lichtwellen   in   der   Nahe  eines 

Brennpunktes  oder  einer  Brennlinie.  Annalen  der  Physik,  30,  755-76. 
de  Regt,  H.  (1997).  Erwin  Schrodinger,  Anschaulichkeit,  and  quantum  theory. 

Studies  in  History  and  Philosophy  of  Modern  Physics,  28B,  461-81. 
de  Regt,  H.  (2001).  Space-time  visualisation  and  the  intelligibility  of  physical 

theories.  Studies  in  History  and  Philosophy  of  Modern  Physics,  32B,  243- 

65. 

Despy-Meyer,  A.,  and  Devriese,  D.  (1997).  Ernest  Solvay  et  son  temps. 

Bruxelles:  Archives  de  l'ULB. 
Deutsch,  D.  (1999).  Quantum  theory  of  probability  and  decisions.  Proceedings 

of  the  Royal  Society  of  London  A,  455,  3129-37. 
Dewdney,  C,  Hardy,  L.,  and  Squires,  E.  J.  (1993).  How  late  measurements  of 

quantum  trajectories  can  fool  a  detector.  Physics  Letters  A,  184,  6-11. 
DeWitt,  B.  S.  (1967).  Quantum  theory  of  gravity,  I.  The  canonical  theory. 

Physical  Review,  160,  1113-48. 
DeWitt,  B.  S.,  and  Graham,  N.  (1973).  The  Many-Worlds  Lnterpretation  of 

Quantum  Mechanics.  Princeton:  Princeton  University  Press. 
Dirac,  P.  (1926a).  Quantum  mechanics  and  a  preliminary  investigation  of  the 

hydrogen  atom.  Proceedings  of  the  Royal  Society  A,  110,  561-79. 
Dirac,  P.  (1926b).  Relativity  quantum  mechanics  with  an  application  to 

Compton  scattering.  Proceedings  of  the  Royal  Society  A,  111,  405-23. 
Dirac,  P.  (1926c).  On  the  theory  of  quantum  mechanics.  Proceedings  of  the 

Royal  Society  A,  112,  661-77. 
Dirac,   P.    (1927a).    The   physical   interpretation   of  quantum  dynamics. 

Proceedings  of  the  Royal  Society  A,  113,  621-41. 
Dirac,  P.   (1927b).  The  quantum  theory  of  emission  and  absorption  of 

radiation.  Proceedings  of  the  Royal  Society  A,  114,  243-65. 
Dirac,  P.  (1927c).  The  quantum  theory  of  dispersion.  Proceedings  of  the  Royal 

Society  A,  114,  710-28. 
Dirac,  P.  A.  M.  (1933).  The  Lagrangian  in  quantum  mechanics.  Physikalische 

Zeitschrift  der  Sowjetunion,  3,  64-72. 
Diirr,  D.,  Fusseder,  W.,  Goldstein,  S.,  and  Zanghi,  N.  (1993).  Comment 

on  'Surrealistic  Bohm  trajectories'.  Zeitschrift  fur  Naturforschung,  48a, 

1261-2. 

Diirr,  D.,  Goldstein,  S.,  and  Zanghi,  N.  (1992).  Quantum  equilibrium  and  the 
origin  of  absolute  uncertainty.  Journal  of  Statistical  Physics,  67,  843-907. 

Dymond,  E.  G.  (1927).  On  electron  scattering  in  Helium.  Physical  Review,  29, 
433-41. 

Eckart,  C.  (1926).  Operator  calculus  and  the  solution  of  the  equations  of 


528  Bibliography 

quantum  dynamics.  Physical  Review,  28,  711-26. 

Ehrenfest,  P.  (1917).  Adiabatic  invariants  and  the  theory  of  quanta. 
Philosophical  Magazine,  33,  500-13. 

Einstein,  A.  (1909).  Uber  die  Entwickelung  unserer  Anschauungen  iiber  das 
Wesen  und  die  Konstitution  der  Strahlung.  Physikalische  Zeitschrift,  10, 
817-26.  English  translation  in  The  Collected  Papers  of  Albert  Einstein, 
vol.  2,  eds.  A.  Beck  and  P.  Havas.  Princeton:  Princeton  University  Press, 
1989,  pp.  379-98. 

Einstein,  A.  (1924).  Quantentheorie  des  einatomigen  idealen  Gases.  Sitzungs- 

berichte  der  Preussischen  Akademie  der  Wissenschaften,  Physikalisch- 

mathematische  Klasse  (1924),  261-7. 
Einstein,    A.    (1925a).    Quantentheorie    des    einatomigen    idealen  Gases, 

2.    Abhandlung.    Sitzungsberichte    der    Preussischen    Akademie  der 

Wissenschaften,  Physikalisch-mathematische  Klasse  (1925),  3-14. 
Einstein,  A.  (1925b).  Quantentheorie  des  idealen  Gases.  Sitzungsberichte  der 

Preussischen  Akademie  der  Wissenschaften,  Physikalisch-mathematische 

Klasse  (1925),  18-25. 
Einstein,  A.  (1949).  Remarks  concerning  the  essays  brought  together  in  this 

co-operative  volume.  In  Schilpp  (1949),  pp.  665-88. 
Einstein,    A.,    and   Besso,    M.    (1972).    Correspondance:    1903-1955,  ed. 

P.  Speziali.  Paris:  Hermann. 
Einstein,  A.,  Podolsky,  B.,  and  Rosen,  N.  (1935).  Can  quantum-mechanical 

description  of  physical  reality  be  considered  complete?  Physical  Review, 

47,  777-80. 

Elsasser,  W.  (1925).  Bemerkungen  zur  Quantenmechanik  freier  Elektronen. 

Die  Naturwissenschaften,  13,  711. 
Englert,  B.-G.,  Scully,  M.  O.,  Siissmann,  G.,  and  Walther,  H.  (1992). 

Surrealistic  Bohm  trajectories.   Zeitschrift  fur  Naturforschung,  47a, 

1175-86. 

Everett,  H.  (1957).  'Relative  state'  formulation  of  quantum  mechanics.  Reviews 

of  Modern  Physics,  29,  454-62. 
Fenyes,  I.   (1952).   Eine  wahrscheinlichkeitstheoretische  Begriindung  und 

Interpretation  der  Quantenmechanik.  Zeitschrift  fur  Physik,  132,  81-106. 
Fermi,  E.  (1926).  Zur  Wellenmechanik  des  Stofivorganges.  Zeitschrift  fur 

Physik,  40,  399-402. 
Fermi,  E.  (1927).  Sul  meccanismo  dell'emissione  nella  meccanica  ondulatoria. 

Rendiconti  Lincei,  5,  795-800. 
Feuer,  L.  S.  (1974).  Einstein  and  the  Generations  of  Science.  New  York:  Basic 

Books. 

Feynman,  R.  P.  (1942).  The  principle  of  least  action  in  quantum  mechanics. 

Ph.D.  thesis,  Princeton  University. 
Feynman,  R.  P.  (1948).  Space-time  approach  to  non-relativistic  quantum 

mechanics.  Reviews  of  Modern  Physics,  20,  367-87. 
Feynman,  R.  P.,  Leighton,  R.  B.,  and  Sands,  M.  (1965).  The  Feynman  Lectures 

on  Physics,   vol.   Ill:  Quantum  Mechanics.   Reading,  Massachusetts: 

Addison- Wesley. 

Fine,  A.  (1986).  The  Shaky  Game:  Einstein,  Realism  and  the  Quantum  Theory. 

Chicago:  University  of  Chicago  Press. 
Fine,  A.  (1999).  Locality  and  the  Hardy  theorem.  In  From  Physics  to 

Philosophy,  eds.  J.  Butterfield  and  C.  Pagonis.  Cambridge:  Cambridge 

University  Press,  pp.  1-11. 


Bibliography 


529 


Fuchs,  C.  A.  (2002).  Quantum  mechanics  as  quantum  information  (and  only 

a  little  more),  quant-ph/0205039. 
Gell-Mann,   M.   and  Hartle,   J.   B.    (1990).   Quantum  mechanics  in  the 

light  of  quantum  cosmology.  In  Complexity,  Entropy,  and  the  Physics 

of  Information,  ed.  W.  H.  Zurek.  Reading,  Mass.:  Addison- Wesley, 

pp.  425-58. 

Ghirardi,  G.C.,  Rimini,  A.,  and  Weber,  T.  (1986).  Unified  dynamics  for 

microscopic  and  macroscopic  systems.  Physical  Review  D,  34,  470-91. 
Goldstein,  H.  (1980).  Classical  Mechanics.  Reading:  Addison- Wesley. 
Gordon,  W.  (1926).  Der  Comptoneffekt  nach  der  Schrodingerschen  Theorie. 

Zeitschrift  fur  Physik,  40,  117-33. 
Greene,  B.  (2000).  The  Elegant  Universe:  Superstrings,  Hidden  Dimensions, 

and  the  Quest  for  the  Ultimate  Theory.  London:  Vintage. 
Greene,  B.  (2005).  The  Fabric  of  the  Cosmos:  Space,  Time,  and  the  Texture 

of  Reality.  New  York:  Vintage. 
Griffiths,  R.  B.  (1984).  Consistent  histories  and  the  interpretation  of  quantum 

mechanics.  Journal  of  Statistical  Physics,  36,  219-72. 
Griffiths,  R.  B.  (2002).  Consistent  Quantum  Theory.  Cambridge:  Cambridge 

University  Press. 

Guth,  A.  H.  (1981).  Inflationary  universe:  A  possible  solution  to  the  horizon 

and  flatness  problems,  Physical  Review  D,  23,  347-56. 
Hardy,  L.  (1995).  The  EPR  argument  and  nonlocality  without  inequalities 

for  a  single  photon.  In  Fundamental  Problems  in  Quantum  Theory,  eds. 

D.  M.  Greenberger  and  A.  Zeilinger.  New  York:  New  York  Academy  of 

Sciences,  pp.  600-15. 
Hardy,  L.  (2001).  Quantum  theory  from  five  reasonable  axioms,  quant- 

ph/0101012. 

Hardy,  L.  (2002).  Why  quantum  theory?  In  Non-locality  and  Modality,  eds. 

T.  Placek  and  J.  Butterfield.  Dordrecht:  Kluwer,  pp.  61-73. 
Hardy,  L.  (2005).  Probability  theories  with  dynamic  causal  structure:  A  new 

framework  for  quantum  gravity,  gr-qc/0509120. 
Hartle,  J.  B.   (1995).   Spacetime  quantum  mechanics  and  the  quantum 

mechanics  of  spacetime.  In  Gravitation  and  Quantizations:  Proceedings  of 

the  1992  Les  Houches  Summer  School,  eds.  B.  Julia  and  J.  Zinn- Justin. 

Amsterdam:  Elsevier,  pp.  285-480. 
Heisenberg,  W.  (1925a).  Uber  eine  Anwendung  des  Korrespondenzprinzips 

auf  die  Frage  nach  der  Polarisation  des  Fluoreszenzlichtes.  Zeitschrift  fur 

Physik,  31,  617-28. 

Heisenberg,  W.  (1925b).  Uber  quantentheoretische  Umdeutung  kinematischer 

und  mechanischer  Beziehungen.  Zeitschrift  fur  Physik,  33,  879-93. 
Heisenberg,  W.  (1926a).  Schwankungserscheinungen  und  Quantenmechanik. 

Zeitschrift  fur  Physik,  40,  501-6. 
Heisenberg,    W.    (1926b).    Mehrkorperproblem    und    Resonanz    in  der 

Quantenmechanik,  I.  Zeitschrift  fur  Physik,  38,  411-26. 
Heisenberg,  W.  (1926c).  Quantenmechanik.  Die  Naturwissenschaften,  14,  989- 

94. 

Heisenberg,  W.  (1927).  Uber  den  anschaulichen  Inhalt  der  quantentheoreti- 
schen  Kinematik  und  Mechanik.  Zeitschrift  fur  Physik,  43,  172-98. 

Heisenberg,  W.  (1929).  Die  Entwicklung  der  Quantentheorie  1918-1928.  Die 
Naturwissenschaften,  14,  490-6. 

Heisenberg,  W.  (1930a).  Die  physikalischen  Prinzipien  der  Quantentheorie. 


530  Bibliography 

Leipzig:  Hirzel.  Reprinted  Mannheim:  BI  Wissenschaftsverlag,  1991. 
Heisenberg,  W.  (1930b).  The  Physical  Principles  of  the  Quantum  Theory, 

translated  by  C.  Eckart  and  F.  C.  Hoyt.  Chicago:  University  of  Chicago 

Press.  Reprinted  New  York:  Dover,  1949. 
Heisenberg,  W.  (1946).  Der  unanschauliche  Quantensprung.  Neue  physikali- 

sche  Blatter,  2,  4-6. 
Heisenberg,  W.  (1948).  Der  Begriff  der  'Abgeschlossenen  Theorie'  in  der 

modernen  Naturwissenschaft.  Dialectica,  2,  331-6. 
Heisenberg,  W.  (1962).  Physics  and  Philosophy:  The  Revolution  in  Modern 

Science.  New  York:  Harper  and  Row. 
Heisenberg,  W.  (1967).  Quantum  theory  and  its  interpretation.  In  Niels  Bohr: 

His  Life  and  Work  as  seen  by  his  Friends  and  Colleagues,  ed.  S.  Rozental. 

New  York:  John  Wiley  and  Sons,  pp.  94-108. 
Heisenberg,  W.  (1969).  Der  Teil  und  das  Ganze.  Miinchen:  Piper. 
Heisenberg,  W.  (1984).  Gesammelte  Werke,  eds.  W.  Blum,  H.-P.  Diirr  and 

H.  Rechenberg.  Berlin:  Springer. 
Hendry,  J.  (1986).  James  Clerk  Maxwell  and  the  Theory  of  the  Electromagnetic 

Field.  Bristol:  Adam  Hilger. 
Hilbert,  D.,  von  Neumann,  J.,  and  Nordheim,  L.  (1928).  Uber  die  Grundlagen 

der  Quantenmechanik.  Mathematische  Annalen,  98,  1-30. 
Holland,  P.  R.  (1993).  The  Quantum  Theory  of  Motion:  An  Account  of  the  de 

Broglie-Bohm  Causal  Interpretation  of  Quantum  Mechanics.  Cambridge: 

Cambridge  University  Press. 
Holland,  P.  R.  (2005).  What's  wrong  with  Einstein's  1927  hidden- variable 

interpretation  of  quantum  mechanics?  Foundations  of  Physics,  35,  177- 

96. 

Howard,  D.  (1990).  'Nicht  sein  kann  was  nicht  sein  darf,  or  the  prehistory  of 
EPR,  1909-1935:  Einstein's  early  worries  about  the  quantum  mechanics 
of  composite  systems.  In  Miller  (1990),  pp.  61-111. 

Jammer,  M.  (1966).  The  Conceptual  Development  of  Quantum  Mechanics. 
New  York:  McGraw-Hill. 

Jammer,  M.  (1974).  The  Philosophy  of  Quantum  Mechanics:  The 
Interpretations  of  Quantum  Mechanics  in  Historical  Perspective.  New 
York:  John  Wiley  and  Sons. 

Jordan,  P.  (1926a).  Uber  kanonische  Transformationen  in  der  Quantenmecha- 
nik. Zeitschrift  fur  Physik,  37,  383-6. 

Jordan,  P.  (1926b).  Uber  kanonische  Transformationen  in  der  Quantenmecha- 
nik, II.  Zeitschrift  fur  Physik,  38,  513-17. 

Jordan,  P.  (1927a).  Uber  quantenmechanische  Darstellung  von  Quantenspriin- 
gen.  Zeitschrift  fur  Physik,  40,  661-6. 

Jordan,  P.  (1927b).  Uber  eine  neue  Begriindung  der  Quantenmechanik,  I. 
Zeitschrift  fur  Physik,  40,  809-38. 

Jordan,  P.  (1927c).  Uber  eine  neue  Begriindung  der  Quantenmechanik,  II. 
Zeitschrift  fur  Physik,  44,  1-25. 

Jordan,  P.  (1927d).  Zur  Quantenmechanik  der  Gasentartung.  Zeitschrift  fur 
Physik,  44,  473-80. 

Jordan,  P.   (1927e).  Die  Entwicklung  der  neuen  Quantenmechanik.  Die 

Naturwissenschaften,  15,  614-23,  636-49. 
Jordan,  P.  (1927f).  Kausalitat  und  Statistik  in  der  modernen  Physik.  Die 

Naturwissenschaften,  15,  105-10. 
Jordan,  P.  (1927g).  Philosophical  foundations  of  quantum  theory.  Nature,  119, 


Bibliography 


531 


566-9. 

Kiefer,  C,  Polarski,  D.,  and  Starobinsky,  A.  A.  (1998).  Quantum-to-classical 

transition  for  fluctuations  in  the  early  universe.  International  Journal  of 

Modern  Physics  D,  7,  455-62. 
Kirsten,  C,  and  Treder,  H.  J.  (1979).  Albert  Einstein  in  Berlin  1913-1933. 

Berlin:  Akademie-Verlag. 
Klein,  O.  (1926).  Quantentheorie  und  fiinfdimensionale  Relativitatstheorie. 

Zeitschrift  fur  Physik,  37,  895-906. 
Koopman,  B.  O.  (1955).  Quantum  theory  and  the  foundations  of  probability. 

In  Applied  Probability,  ed.  L.  A.  MacColl.  New  York:  McGraw-Hill, 

pp.  97-102. 

Kramers,  H.  (1924).  The  quantum  theory  of  dispersion.  Nature,  114,  310-11. 
Kramers,  H.,  and  Heisenberg,  W.  (1925).  Uber  die  Streuung  von  Strahlung 

durch  Atome.  Zeitschrift  fur  Physik,  31,  681-708. 
Kragh,  Helge  (1990).  Dirac:  A  Scientific  Biography.  Cambridge:  Cambridge 

University  Press. 

Kuhn,  W.  (1925).  Uber  die  Gesamtstarke  der  von  einem  Zustande  ausgehenden 

Absorptionslinien.  Zeitschrift  fur  Physik,  33,  408-12. 
Lacki,  J.  (2004).  The  puzzle  of  canonical  transformations  in  early  quantum 

mechanics.  Studies  in  History  and  Philosophy  of  Modern  Physics,  35, 

317-44. 

Lanczos,    K.    (1926).    Uber    eine    feldmassige    Darstellung    der  neuen 

Quantenmechanik.  Zeitschrift  fur  Physik,  35,  812-30. 
Laue,  M.  von  (1914).  Die  Freiheitsgrade  von  Strahlenbiindeln.  Annalen  der 

Physik,  44,  1197-1212. 
Liddle,  A.  R.  and  Lyth,  D.  H.  (2000).  Cosmological  Inflation  and  Large-Scale 

Structure.  Cambridge:  Cambridge  University  Press. 
Lochak,  G.  (1992).  Louis  de  Broglie.  Paris:  Flammarion. 

London,  F.  (1926a).  Uber  die  Jacobischen  Transformationen  der  Quantenme- 
chanik. Zeitschrift  fur  Physik,  37,  915U-25. 

London,  F.  (1926b).  Winkelvariable  und  kanonische  Transformationen  in  der 
Undulationsmechanik.  Zeitschrift  fur  Physik,  40,  193-U210. 

Ludwig,  G.  (1968).  Wave  Mechanics.  Oxford:  Pergamon  Press. 

Madelung,  E.  (1926a).  Eine  anschauliche  Deutung  der  Gleichung  von 
Schrodinger.  Die  Naturwissenschaften,  14,  1004. 

Madelung,  E.  (1926b).  Quantentheorie  in  hydrodynamischer  Form.  Zeitschrift 
fur  Physik,  40,  322-6. 

Margenau,  H.  (1939).  Van  der  Waals  forces.  Reviews  of  Modern  Physics,  11, 
1-35. 

Mehra,  J.   (1975).    The  Solvay  Conferences  on  Physics:  Aspects   of  the 

Development  of  Physics  since  1911.  Dordrecht  and  Boston:  Reidel. 
Mehra,  J.,  and  Rechenberg,  H.  (1982a).   The  Historical  Development  of 

Quantum  Theory,  vol.  1,  part  2.  New  York:  Springer. 
Mehra,  J.,  and  Rechenberg,  H.  (1982b).   The  Historical  Development  of 

Quantum  Theory,  vol.  2.  New  York:  Springer. 
Mehra,  J.,  and  Rechenberg,  H.  (1982c).    The  Historical  Development  of 

Quantum  Theory,  vol.  3.  New  York:  Springer. 
Mehra,  J.,  and  Rechenberg,  H.   (1987).    The  Historical  Development  of 

Quantum  Theory,  vol.  5,  part  2.  New  York:  Springer. 
Mehra,  J.,  and  Rechenberg,  H.   (2000).    The  Historical  Development  of 

Quantum  Theory,  vol.  6,  part  1.  New  York:  Springer. 


532  Bibliography 

Miller,  A.  I.  (ed.)  (1990).  Sixty-two  Years  of  Uncertainty.  New  York:  Plenum 
Press. 

Millikan,  R.  A.  (1916).  A  direct  photoelectric  determination  of  Planck's  "ft". 

Physical  Review,  7,  355-88. 
Moore,  W.  (1989).  Schrodinger:  Life  and  Thought.  Cambridge:  Cambridge 

University  Press. 

Muller,  F.  (1997).  The  Equivalence  Myth  of  Quantum  Mechanics,  parts  I  and 

II  and  addendum.  Studies  in  History  and  Philosophy  of  Modern  Physics, 

28B,  35-61  and  219-47;  ibid.,  30B,  543-5. 
Nelson,  E.  (1966).  Derivation  of  the  Schrodinger  equation  from  Newtonian 

mechanics.  Physical  Review,  150,  1079-85. 
Neumann,  J.  von  (1927).  Mathematische  Begriindung  der  Quantenmechanik. 

Nachrichten    der   Akademie    der    Wissenschaften    in    Gottingen.  II, 

Mathematisch-Physikalische  Klasse,  20  May  1927,  1-57. 
Newton,  I.  (1730).  Opticks:  Or,  a  Treatise  of  the  Reflections,  Refractions, 

Inflections  and  Colours  of  Light,  4th  cdn.  London.  Reprinted  as  I.  Newton, 

Opticks.  New  York:  Dover,  1979. 
Nicolai,  G.  F.  (1917).  Die  Biologie  des  Krieges.  Zurich:  Orell  Fiissli. 
Norsen,  T.  (2005).  Einstein's  boxes.  American  Journal  of  Physics,  73,  164-76. 
Nye,  M.  J.  (1997).  Aristocratic  culture  and  the  pursuit  of  science:  the  de 

Broglies  in  modern  France.  Isis,  88,  397-421. 
Omnes,  R.  (1992).  Consistent  interpretations  of  quantum  mechanics.  Reviews 

of  Modern  Physics,  64,  339-82. 
Omnes,  R.  (1994).  The  Interpretation  of  Quantum  Mechanics.  Princeton: 

Princeton  University  Press. 
Oseen,  C.  W.  (1999).  Presentation  speech,  12  December  1929.  In  Nobel 

Lectures   in  Physics   (1901-1995),    CD-Rom  edn.   Singapore:  World 

Scientific. 

Padmanabhan,  T.  (1993).  Structure  Formation  in  the  Universe.  Cambridge: 

Cambridge  University  Press. 
Pais,  A.  (1982).  Subtle  is  the  Lord:  The  Science  and  the  Life  of  Albert  Einstein. 

Oxford:  Oxford  University  Press. 
Patterson,  A.  L.  (1927).  The  scattering  of  electrons  from  single  crystals  of 

nickel.  Nature,  120,  46-7. 
Pauli,  W.  (1925).  Uber  die  Intensitaten  der  im  elektrischen  Feld  erscheinenden 

Kombinationslinien.  Matematisk-fysiske  Meddelser,  7,  3-20. 
Pauli,  W.  (1927).  Uber  Gasentartung  und  Paramagnetismus.  Zeitschrift  fur 

Physik,  41,  81-102. 

Pauli,   W.    (1979).    Wissenschaftlicher  Briefwechsel  mit  Bohr,  Einstein, 

Heisenberg  u.a.,  Teil  I:  1919-1929,  eds.  A.  Hermann,  K.  v.  Meyenn  and 

V.  F.  Weisskopf.  Berlin  and  Heidelberg:  Springer. 
Pearle,  P.  (1976).  Reduction  of  the  state  vector  by  a  nonlinear  Schrodinger 

equation.  Physical  Review  D,  13,  857-68. 
Pearle,  P.  (1979).  Toward  explaining  why  events  occur.  International  Journal 

of  Theoretical  Physics,  18,  489-518. 
Pearle,  P.  (1989).  Combining  stochastic  dynamical  state- vector  reduction  with 

spontaneous  localization.  Physical  Review  A,  39,  2277-89. 
Pearle,  P.,  and  Valentini,  A.  (2006).  Quantum  mechanics:  generalizations.  In 

Encyclopaedia  of  Mathematical  Physics,  eds.  J. -P.  Francoise,  G.  Naber 

and  T.  S.  Tsun.  Amsterdam:  Elsevier,  pp.  265-76. 
Perez,  A.,  Sahlmann,  H.,  and  Sudarsky,  D.  (2006).  On  the  quantum  origin 


Bibliography 


533 


of  the  seeds  of  cosmic  structure.  Classical  and  Quantum  Gravity,  23, 
2317-54. 

Perovic,  S.  (2006).  Schrodinger's  interpretation  of  quantum  mechanics  and 

the  relevance  of  Bohr's  experimental  critique.  Studies  in  History  and 

Philosophy  of  Modern  Physics,  37,  275-97. 
Philippidis,  C,  Dewdney,  C,  and  Hiley,  B.  J.  (1979).  Quantum  interference 

and  the  quantum  potential.  Nuovo  Cimento  B,  52,  15-28. 
Polkinghorne,  J.  (2002).  Quantum  Theory:  A  Very  Short  Introduction.  Oxford: 

Oxford  University  Press. 
Popper,  K.  R.  (1982).  Quantum  Theory  and  the  Schism  in  Physics.  London: 

Unwin  Hyman. 

Przibram,  K.  (ed.)  (1967).  Letters  on  Wave  Mechanics.  New  York: 
Philosophical  Library.  Originally  published  as  Briefe  zur  Wellenmechanik. 
Wien:  Springer,  1963. 

Rovelli,  C.  (2004).  Quantum  Gravity.  Cambridge:  Cambridge  University  Press. 

Saunders,  S.  (1995).  Time,  decoherence  and  quantum  mechanics.  Synthese, 
102,  235-66. 

Saunders,  S.  (1998).  Time,  quantum  mechanics,  and  probability.  Synthese, 
114,  373-404. 

Scheibe,  E.  (1993).  Heisenbergs  Begriff  der  abgeschlossenen  Theorie.  In  Werner 

Heisenberg:  Physiker  und  Philosoph,  eds.  B.  Geyer,  H.  Herwig  and 

H.  Rechenberg.  Heidelberg:  Spektrum,  pp.  251-7. 
Schiff,  L.  I.  (1955).  Quantum  Mechanics.  New  York:  McGraw-Hill. 
P.  A.  Schilpp  (ed.)  (1949).  Albert  Einstein:  Philosopher- Scientist,  The  Library 

of  Living  Philosophers,  vol.  VII.  La  Salle,  111.:  Open  Court. 
Schrodinger,  E.  (1922).  Dopplerprinzip  und  Bohrsche  Frequenzbedingung. 

Physikalische  Zeitschrift,  23,  301-3. 
Schrodinger,  E.  (1924a).  Uber  das  thermische  Gleichgewicht  zwischen  Licht- 

uns  Schallstrahlen.  Physikalische  Zeitschrift,  25,  89-94. 
Schrodinger,    E.    (1924b).    Bohrs    neue    Strahlungshypothese    und  der 

Energiesatz.  Die  Naturwissenschaften,  12,  720-4. 
Schrodinger,    E.    (1926a).    Zur    Einsteinschen    Gastheorie.  Physikalische 

Zeitschrift,  27,  95-101. 
Schrodinger,    E.    (1926b).    Quantisierung    als    Eigenwertproblem  (erste 

Mitteilung).  Annalen  der  Physik,  79,  361-76. 
Schrodinger,    E.    (1926c).    Quantisierung    als    Eigenwertproblem  (zweite 

Mitteilung).  Annalen  der  Physik,  79,  489-527. 
Schrodinger,    E.    (1926d).    Uber    das    Verhaltnis    der  Heisenberg-Born- 

Jordanschen  Quantenmechanik  zu  der  meinen.  Annalen  der  Physik,  79, 

734-56. 

Schrodinger,    E.    (1926).    Der    stetige    Ubergang    von    der    Mikro-  zur 

Makromechanik.  Die  Naturwissenschaften,  14,  664-6. 
Schrodinger,    E.    (1926f).    Quantisierung    als    Eigenwertproblem  (dritte 

Mitteilung:  Storungstheorie,  mit  Anwendung  auf  den  Starkeffekt  der 

Balmerlinien).  Annalen  der  Physik,  80,  437-90. 
Schrodinger,    E.    (1926g).    Quantisierung    als    Eigenwertproblem  (vierte 

Mitteilung).  Annalen  der  Physik,  81,  109-139. 
Schrodinger,  E.  (1926h).  An  undulatory  theory  of  the  mechanics  of  atoms  and 

molecules.  Physical  Review,  28,  1049-1070. 
Schrodinger,  E.  (1926i).  Vorwort  zur  ersten  Auflage.  In  Schrodinger  (1928), 

p.  iv. 


534 


Bibliography 


Schrodinger,  E.  (1927a).  Uber  den  Comptoneffekt.  Annalen  der  Physik,  82, 
257-64. 

Schrodinger,  E.  (1927b).  Der  Energieimpulssatz  der  Materiewellen.  Annalen 

der  Physik,  82,  265-72. 
Schrodinger,  E.  (1927c).  Energieaustausch  nach  der  Wellenmechanik.  Annalen 

der  Physik,  83,  956-68. 
Schrodinger,  E.  (1928).  Abhandlungen  zur  Wellenmechanik,  2nd,  enlarged 

edn.  Leipzig:  Barth.  Translated  as  Collected  Papers  on  Wave  Mechanics. 

London  and  Glasgow:  Blackie  and  Son,  1928. 
Schrodinger,  E.  (1929a).  Was  ist  ein  Naturgesetz?  Die  Naturwissenschaften, 

17,9-11. 

Schrodinger,    E.    (1929b).    Die    Erfassung    der    Quantengesetze  durch 

kontinuierliche  Funktionen.  Die  Naturwissenschaften,  13,  486-9. 
Schrodinger,  E.  (1935).  Die  gegenwartige  Situation  in  der  Quantenmechanik. 

Die  Naturwissenschaften,  23,  807-12,  823-8,  844-9. 
Schrodinger,  E.  (1936).  Probability  relations  between  separated  systems. 

Proceedings  of  the  Cambridge  Philosophical  Society,  32,  446-52. 
Schrodinger,  E.   (1984).    Gesammelte  Abhandlungen,   eds.  Osterreichische 

Akademie  der  Wissenschaften.  Braunschweig:  Vieweg. 
Schrodinger,  E.  (1995).  The  Interpretation  of  Quantum  Mechanics.  Ed.  and 

with  introduction  by  M.  Bitbol.  Woodbridge,  Conn.:  Ox  Bow  Press. 
Schulman,    L.    S.    (1997).    Time's   Arrows    and    Quantum  Measurement. 

Cambridge:  Cambridge  University  Press. 
Senftleben,  H.  A.  (1923).  Zur  Grundlegung  der  'Quantentheorie',  I.  Zeitschrift 

fur  Physik,  22,  127-56. 
Shankar,  R.  (1994).  Principles  of  Quantum  Mechanics,  2nd  edn.  New  York: 

Springer- Verlag. 

Shimony,  A.  (2005).  Comment  on  Norsen's  defense  of  Einstein's  'box 
argument'.  American  Journal  of  Physics,  73,  177-8. 

Slater,  J.  C.  (1924).  Radiation  and  atoms.  Nature,  113,  307-8. 

Smekal,  A.  (1923).  Zur  Quantentheorie  der  Dispersion.  Die  Naturwissenschaf- 
ten, 11,  873-5. 

Taylor,  G.  I.  (1909).  Interference  fringes  with  feeble  light.  Proceedings  of  the 

Cambridge  Philosophical  Society,  15,  114-15. 
Thomas,  W.  (1925).  Uber  die  Zahl  der  Dispersionselektronen,  die  einem 

stationaren    Zustande   zugeordnet   sind    (vorlaufige   Mitteilung).  Die 

Naturwissenschaften,  13,  627. 
Unruh,  W.  G.  and  Wald,  R.  M.  (1989).  Time  and  the  interpretation  of 

canonical  quantum  gravity.  Physical  Review  D,  40,  2598-2614. 
Valentini,  A.  (1991a).  Signal-locality,  uncertainty,  and  the  subquantum  H- 

theorem,  I.  Physics  Letters  A,  156,  5-11. 
Valentini,  A.  (1991b).  Signal-locality,  uncertainty,  and  the  subquantum  H- 

theorem,  II.  Physics  Letters  A,  158,  1-8. 
Valentini,  A.  (1992).  On  the  pilot-wave  theory  of  classical,  quantum  and 

subquantum  physics.  Ph.D.  thesis,  International  School  for  Advanced  Stu- 
dies, Trieste,  Italy.  http://www.sissa.it/ap/PhD/Theses/valentini.pdf  . 
Valentini,  A.  (1997).  On  Galilean  and  Lorentz  invariance  in  pilot-wave 

dynamics.  Physics  Letters  A,  228,  215-22. 
Valentini,  A.  (2001).  Hidden  variables,  statistical  mechanics  and  the  early 

universe.  In  Chance  in  Physics:  Foundations  and  Perspectives,  eds.  J. 

Bricmont,  D.  Diirr,  M.  C.  Galavotti,  G.  Ghirardi,  F.  Petruccione  and  N. 


Bibliography 


535 


Zanghi.  Berlin:  Springer- Verlag,  pp.  165-81. 
Valentini,  A.  (2002a).  Signal-locality  in  hidden- variables  theories.  Physics 

Letters  A,  297,  273-8. 
Valentini,  A.  (2002b).  Subquantum  information  and  computation.  Pramana 

—  Journal  of  Physics,  59,  269-77. 
Valentini,  A.  (2006).  Inflationary  cosmology  as  a  probe  of  primordial  quantum 

mechanics,  hep-th/ 
Valentini,  A.  (2007).  Cambridge:  Cambridge  University  Press.  Forthcoming. 
Valentini,  A.   and  Westman,  H.   (2005).   Dynamical  origin  of  quantum 

probabilities.  Proceedings  of  the  Royal  Society  of  London  A,  461,  253-72. 
Wallace,  D.  (2003a).  Everett  and  structure.  Studies  in  History  and  Philosophy 

of  Modern  Physics,  34,  87-105. 
Wallace,  D.  (2003b).  Everettian  rationality:  defending  Deutsch's  approach 

to  probability  in  the  Everett  interpretation.  Studies  in  History  and 

Philosophy  of  Modern  Physics,  34,  415-39. 
Wallstrom,  T.  C.  (1994).  Inequivalence  between  the  Schrodinger  equation  and 

the  Madelung  hydrodynamic  equations.  Physical  Review  A,  49,  1613-17. 
Wentzel,  G.  (1926).  Zur  Theorie  des  photoelektrischen  Effekts.  Zeitschrift  fur 

Physik,  40,  574-89_. 

Wentzel,  G.   (1927).  Uber  die  Richtungsverteilung  der  Photoelektronen. 

Zeitschrift  fur  Physik,  41,  828-32. 
Wheeler,  J.  A.   (1978).  The  'past'  and  the  'delayed-choice'  double-slit 

experiment.  In  Mathematical  Foundations  of  Quantum  Mechanics,  ed.  A. 

R.  Marlow.  New  York:  Academic,  pp.  9-48.  Reprinted  in  Wheeler  and 

Zurek  (1983),  pp.  182-213. 
Wheeler,  J.  A.  (1986).  Interview.  In  The  Ghost  in  the  Atom,  eds.  P.  C.  W. 

Davies  and  J.  R.  Brown,  Cambridge:  Cambridge  University  Press,  pp.  58- 

69. 

Wheeler,  J.  A.,  and  Zurek,  W.  H.  (eds.)  (1983).  Quantum  Theory  and 
Measurement.  Princeton:  Princeton  University  Press. 

Wien,  W.  (1923).  Kanalstrahlen,  2nd  edn.  Vol.  IV.  1  of  Handbuch  der 
Radiologic,  ed.  E.  Marx.  Leipzig:  Akademische  Verlagsgesellschaft. 

Wigner,  E.  P.  (1961).  Remarks  on  the  mind-body  question.  In  The  Scientist 
Speculates,  ed.  I.  J.  Good.  London:  Heinemann,  pp.  284-302.  Reprinted 
in  E.  P.  Wigner  Symmetries  and  Reflections.  Bloomington:  Indiana 
University  Press,  1967,  pp.  171-84.  Also  reprinted  in  Wheeler  and  Zurek 
(1983),  pp.  168-81. 

Wigner,  E.  P.  (1980).  Thirty  years  of  knowing  Einstein.  In  Some  Strangeness  in 
the  Proportion:  a  Centennial  Symposium  to  Celebrate  the  Achievements  of 
Albert  Einstein,  ed.  H.  Woolf.  Reading,  Massachusetts:  Addison- Wesley, 
pp.  461-8. 

Wootters,  W.  K.,  and  Zurek,  W.  H.  (1979).  Complementarity  in  the  double- 
slit  experiment:  quantum  nonseparability  and  a  quantitative  statement  of 
Bohr's  principle.  Physical  Review  D,  19,  473-84. 

Zurek,  W.  H.  (1991).  Decoherence  and  the  transition  from  quantum  to 
classical.  Physics  Today,  44,  n.  10  (October  1991),  pp.  36-44. 


